Internationalization
====================

Internationalization and localization adapt the applications and their contents
to the specific region or language of the users. In Symfony this is an opt-in
feature that needs to be enabled before using it. To do this, uncomment the
following ``translator`` configuration option and set your application locale:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # app/config/config.yml
    framework:
        # ...
        translator: { fallbacks: ['%locale%'] }

    # app/config/parameters.yml
    parameters:
        # ...
        locale:     en

Translation Source File Format
------------------------------

The Symfony Translation component supports lots of different translation
formats: PHP, Qt, ``.po``, ``.mo``, JSON, CSV, INI, etc.

.. best-practice::

    Use the XLIFF format for your translation files.

Of all the available translation formats, only XLIFF and gettext have broad
support in the tools used by professional translators. And since it's based
on XML, you can validate XLIFF file contents as you write them.

Symfony 2.6 added support for notes inside XLIFF files, making them more
user-friendly for translators. At the end, good translations are all about
context, and these XLIFF notes allow you to define that context.

.. tip::

    The Apache-licensed `JMSTranslationBundle`_ offers you a web interface for
    viewing and editing these translation files. It also has advanced extractors
    that can read your project and automatically update the XLIFF files.

Translation Source File Location
--------------------------------

.. best-practice::

    Store the translation files in the ``app/Resources/translations/`` directory.

Traditionally, Symfony developers have created these files in the
``Resources/translations/`` directory of each bundle.

But since the ``app/Resources/`` directory is considered the global location
for the application's resources, storing translations in ``app/Resources/translations/``
centralizes them *and* gives them priority over any other translation file.
This lets you override translations defined in third-party bundles.

Translation Keys
----------------

.. best-practice::

    Always use keys for translations instead of content strings.

Using keys simplifies the management of the translation files because you
can change the original contents without having to update all of the translation
files.

Keys should always describe their *purpose* and *not* their location. For
example, if a form has a field with the label "Username", then a nice key
would be ``label.username``, *not* ``edit_form.label.username``.

Example Translation File
------------------------

Applying all the previous best practices, the sample translation file for
English in the application would be:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- app/Resources/translations/messages.en.xlf -->
    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <xliff version="1.2" xmlns="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2">
        <file source-language="en" target-language="en" datatype="plaintext" original="file.ext">
            <body>
                <trans-unit id="1">
                    <source>title.post_list</source>
                    <target>Post List</target>
                </trans-unit>
            </body>
        </file>
    </xliff>

.. _`JMSTranslationBundle`: https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSTranslationBundle
