profiler.rst, before:

Profiler
========

The profiler is a powerful **development tool** that gives detailed information
about the execution of any request. 

.. caution::

    **Never** enable the profiler in production environments
    as it will lead to major security vulnerabilities in your project.

Installation
------------

In applications using :ref:`Symfony Flex <symfony-flex>`, run this command to
install the ``profiler`` :ref:`Symfony pack <symfony-packs>` before using it:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require --dev symfony/profiler-pack

Now, browse any page of your application in the development environment to let
the profiler collect information. Then, click on any element of the debug
toolbar injected at the bottom of your pages to open the web interface of the
Symfony Profiler, which will look like this:

.. image:: /_images/profiler/web-interface.png
   :align: center
   :class: with-browser

.. note::

    The debug toolbar is only injected into HTML responses. For other kinds of
    contents (e.g. JSON responses in API requests) the profiler URL is available
    in the ``X-Debug-Token-Link`` HTTP response header. Browse the ``/_profiler``
    URL to see all profiles.

Accessing Profiling Data Programmatically
-----------------------------------------

Most of the times, the profiler information is accessed and analyzed using its
web-based interface. However, you can also retrieve profiling information
programmatically thanks to the methods provided by the ``profiler`` service.

When the response object is available, use the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Profiler\\Profiler::loadProfileFromResponse`
method to access to its associated profile::

    // ... $profiler is the 'profiler' service
    $profile = $profiler->loadProfileFromResponse($response);

When the profiler stores data about a request, it also associates a token with it;
this token is available in the ``X-Debug-Token`` HTTP header of the response.
Using this token, you can access the profile of any past response thanks to the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Profiler\\Profiler::loadProfile` method::

    $token = $response->headers->get('X-Debug-Token');
    $profile = $profiler->loadProfile($token);

.. tip::

    When the profiler is enabled but not the web debug toolbar, inspect the page
    with your browser's developer tools to get the value of the ``X-Debug-Token``
    HTTP header.

The ``profiler`` service also provides the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Profiler\\Profiler::find` method to
look for tokens based on some criteria::

    // gets the latest 10 tokens
    $tokens = $profiler->find('', '', 10, '', '', '');

    // gets the latest 10 tokens for all URL containing /admin/
    $tokens = $profiler->find('', '/admin/', 10, '', '', '');

    // gets the latest 10 tokens for local POST requests
    $tokens = $profiler->find('127.0.0.1', '', 10, 'POST', '', '');

    // gets the latest 10 tokens for requests that happened between 2 and 4 days ago
    $tokens = $profiler->find('', '', 10, '', '4 days ago', '2 days ago');

Data Collectors
---------------

The profiler gets its information using some services called "data collectors".
Symfony comes with several collectors that get information about the request,
the logger, the routing, the cache, etc.

Run this command to get the list of collectors actually enabled in your app:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console debug:container --tag=data_collector

You can also :doc:`create your own data collector </profiler/data_collector>` to
store any data generated by your app and display it in the debug toolbar and the
profiler web interface.

.. _profiler-timing-execution:

Timing the Execution of the Application
---------------------------------------

If you want to measure the time some tasks take in your application, there's no
need to create a custom data collector. Instead, use the built-in utilities to
:ref:`profile Symfony applications <profiling-applications>`.

.. tip::

    Consider using a professional profiler such as `Blackfire`_ to measure and
    analyze the execution of your application in detail.

.. _enabling-the-profiler-conditionally:

Enabling the Profiler Programmatically
--------------------------------------

Symfony Profiler can be enabled and disabled programmatically. You can use the ``enable()``
and ``disable()`` methods of the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Profiler\\Profiler`
class in your controllers to manage the profiler programmatically::

    use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Profiler\Profiler;
    // ...

    class DefaultController
    {
        // ...

        public function someMethod(?Profiler $profiler)
        {
            // $profiler won't be set if your environment doesn't have the profiler (like prod, by default)
            if (null !== $profiler) {
                // if it exists, disable the profiler for this particular controller action
                $profiler->disable();
            }

            // ...
        }
    }

In order for the profiler to be injected into your controller you need to
create an alias pointing to the existing ``profiler`` service:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/services_dev.yaml
        services:
            Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Profiler\Profiler: '@profiler'

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/services_dev.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

            <services>
                <service id="Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Profiler\Profiler" alias="profiler"/>
            </services>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/services_dev.php
        use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Profiler\Profiler;

        $container->setAlias(Profiler::class, 'profiler');

Updating the Web Debug Toolbar After AJAX Requests
--------------------------------------------------

`Single-page applications`_ (SPA) are web applications that interact with the
user by dynamically rewriting the current page rather than loading entire new
pages from a server.

By default, the debug toolbar displays the information of the initial page load
and doesn't refresh after each AJAX request. However, you can set the
``Symfony-Debug-Toolbar-Replace`` header to a value of ``1`` in the response to
the AJAX request to force the refresh of the toolbar::

    $response->headers->set('Symfony-Debug-Toolbar-Replace', 1);

Ideally this header should only be set during development and not for
production. To do that, create an :doc:`event subscriber </event_dispatcher>`
and listen to the :ref:`kernel.response <component-http-kernel-kernel-response>`
event::

    use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Event\ResponseEvent;

    // ...

    public function onKernelResponse(ResponseEvent $event)
    {
        if (!$event->getKernel()->isDebug()) {
            return;
        }

        $request = $event->getRequest();
        if (!$request->isXmlHttpRequest()) {
            return;
        }

        $response = $event->getResponse();
        $response->headers->set('Symfony-Debug-Toolbar-Replace', 1);
    }

.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    profiler/data_collector

.. _`Single-page applications`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-page_application
.. _`Blackfire`: https://blackfire.io/docs/introduction?utm_source=symfony&utm_medium=symfonycom_docs&utm_campaign=profiler

Commit message:

Add information about profile auto-cleanup

profiler.rst, after:

Profiler
========

The profiler is a powerful **development tool** that gives detailed information
about the execution of any request. 

.. caution::

    **Never** enable the profiler in production environments
    as it will lead to major security vulnerabilities in your project.

Installation
------------

In applications using :ref:`Symfony Flex <symfony-flex>`, run this command to
install the ``profiler`` :ref:`Symfony pack <symfony-packs>` before using it:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require --dev symfony/profiler-pack

Now, browse any page of your application in the development environment to let
the profiler collect information. Then, click on any element of the debug
toolbar injected at the bottom of your pages to open the web interface of the
Symfony Profiler, which will look like this:

.. image:: /_images/profiler/web-interface.png
   :align: center
   :class: with-browser

.. note::

    The debug toolbar is only injected into HTML responses. For other kinds of
    contents (e.g. JSON responses in API requests) the profiler URL is available
    in the ``X-Debug-Token-Link`` HTTP response header. Browse the ``/_profiler``
    URL to see all profiles.

.. versionadded:: 6.3

    Profile garbage collection was introduced in Symfony 6.3.

.. note::

    To limit the storage used by profiles on disk, they are probabilistically
    removed after 2 days.

Accessing Profiling Data Programmatically
-----------------------------------------

Most of the time, the profiler information is accessed and analyzed using its
web-based interface. However, you can also retrieve profiling information
programmatically thanks to the methods provided by the ``profiler`` service.

When the response object is available, use the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Profiler\\Profiler::loadProfileFromResponse`
method to access to its associated profile::

    // ... $profiler is the 'profiler' service
    $profile = $profiler->loadProfileFromResponse($response);

When the profiler stores data about a request, it also associates a token with it;
this token is available in the ``X-Debug-Token`` HTTP header of the response.
Using this token, you can access the profile of any past response thanks to the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Profiler\\Profiler::loadProfile` method::

    $token = $response->headers->get('X-Debug-Token');
    $profile = $profiler->loadProfile($token);

.. tip::

    When the profiler is enabled but not the web debug toolbar, inspect the page
    with your browser's developer tools to get the value of the ``X-Debug-Token``
    HTTP header.

The ``profiler`` service also provides the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Profiler\\Profiler::find` method to
look for tokens based on some criteria::

    // gets the latest 10 tokens
    $tokens = $profiler->find('', '', 10, '', '', '');

    // gets the latest 10 tokens for all URL containing /admin/
    $tokens = $profiler->find('', '/admin/', 10, '', '', '');

    // gets the latest 10 tokens for local POST requests
    $tokens = $profiler->find('127.0.0.1', '', 10, 'POST', '', '');

    // gets the latest 10 tokens for requests that happened between 2 and 4 days ago
    $tokens = $profiler->find('', '', 10, '', '4 days ago', '2 days ago');

Data Collectors
---------------

The profiler gets its information using some services called "data collectors".
Symfony comes with several collectors that get information about the request,
the logger, the routing, the cache, etc.

Run this command to get the list of collectors actually enabled in your app:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ php bin/console debug:container --tag=data_collector

You can also :doc:`create your own data collector </profiler/data_collector>` to
store any data generated by your app and display it in the debug toolbar and the
profiler web interface.

.. _profiler-timing-execution:

Timing the Execution of the Application
---------------------------------------

If you want to measure the time some tasks take in your application, there's no
need to create a custom data collector. Instead, use the built-in utilities to
:ref:`profile Symfony applications <profiling-applications>`.

.. tip::

    Consider using a professional profiler such as `Blackfire`_ to measure and
    analyze the execution of your application in detail.

.. _enabling-the-profiler-conditionally:

Enabling the Profiler Programmatically
--------------------------------------

Symfony Profiler can be enabled and disabled programmatically. You can use the ``enable()``
and ``disable()`` methods of the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Profiler\\Profiler`
class in your controllers to manage the profiler programmatically::

    use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Profiler\Profiler;
    // ...

    class DefaultController
    {
        // ...

        public function someMethod(?Profiler $profiler)
        {
            // $profiler won't be set if your environment doesn't have the profiler (like prod, by default)
            if (null !== $profiler) {
                // if it exists, disable the profiler for this particular controller action
                $profiler->disable();
            }

            // ...
        }
    }

In order for the profiler to be injected into your controller you need to
create an alias pointing to the existing ``profiler`` service:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/services_dev.yaml
        services:
            Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Profiler\Profiler: '@profiler'

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/services_dev.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

            <services>
                <service id="Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Profiler\Profiler" alias="profiler"/>
            </services>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/services_dev.php
        use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Profiler\Profiler;

        $container->setAlias(Profiler::class, 'profiler');

Updating the Web Debug Toolbar After AJAX Requests
--------------------------------------------------

`Single-page applications`_ (SPA) are web applications that interact with the
user by dynamically rewriting the current page rather than loading entire new
pages from a server.

By default, the debug toolbar displays the information of the initial page load
and doesn't refresh after each AJAX request. However, you can set the
``Symfony-Debug-Toolbar-Replace`` header to a value of ``1`` in the response to
the AJAX request to force the refresh of the toolbar::

    $response->headers->set('Symfony-Debug-Toolbar-Replace', 1);

Ideally this header should only be set during development and not for
production. To do that, create an :doc:`event subscriber </event_dispatcher>`
and listen to the :ref:`kernel.response <component-http-kernel-kernel-response>`
event::

    use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Event\ResponseEvent;

    // ...

    public function onKernelResponse(ResponseEvent $event)
    {
        if (!$event->getKernel()->isDebug()) {
            return;
        }

        $request = $event->getRequest();
        if (!$request->isXmlHttpRequest()) {
            return;
        }

        $response = $event->getResponse();
        $response->headers->set('Symfony-Debug-Toolbar-Replace', 1);
    }

.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    profiler/data_collector

.. _`Single-page applications`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-page_application
.. _`Blackfire`: https://blackfire.io/docs/introduction?utm_source=symfony&utm_medium=symfonycom_docs&utm_campaign=profiler
