cookbook/security/custom_provider.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Security; User Provider

How to create a custom User Provider
====================================

Part of Symfony's standard authentication process depends on "user providers".
When a user submits a username and password, the authentication layer asks
the configured user provider to return a user object for a given username.
Symfony then checks whether the password of this user is correct and generates
a security token so the user stays authenticated during the current session.
Out of the box, Symfony has an "in_memory" and an "entity" user provider.
In this entry we'll see how you can create your own user provider, which
could be useful if your users are accessed via a custom database, a file,
or - as we show in this example - a web service.

Create a User Class
-------------------

First, regardless of *where* your user data is coming from, you'll need to
create a ``User`` class that represents that data. The ``User`` can look
however you want and contain any data. The only requirement is that the
class implements :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\User\\UserInterface`.
The methods in this interface should therefore be defined in the custom user 
class: ``getRoles()``, ``getPassword()``, ``getSalt()``, ``getUsername()``,
``eraseCredentials()``, ``equals()``.

Let's see this in action::

    // src/Acme/WebserviceUserBundle/Security/User.php
    namespace Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User;

    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\User\UserInterface;

    class WebserviceUser implements UserInterface
    {
        private $username;
        private $password;
        private $salt;
        private $roles;

        public function __construct($username, $password, $salt, array $roles)
        {
            $this->username = $username;
            $this->password = $password;
            $this->salt = $salt;
            $this->roles = $roles;
        }

        public function getRoles()
        {
            return $this->roles;
        }

        public function getPassword()
        {
            return $this->password;
        }

        public function getSalt()
        {
            return $this->salt;
        }

        public function getUsername()
        {
            return $this->username;
        }   

        public function eraseCredentials()
        {
        }

        public function equals(UserInterface $user)
        {
            if (!$user instanceof WebserviceUser) {
                return false;
            }

            if ($this->password !== $user->getPassword()) {
                return false;
            }

            if ($this->getSalt() !== $user->getSalt()) {
                return false;
            }

            if ($this->username !== $user->getUsername()) {
                return false;
            }

            return true;
        }
    }

If you have more information about your users - like a "first name" - then
you can add a ``firstName`` field to hold that data.

For more details on each of the methods, see :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\User\\UserInterface`.

Create a User Provider
----------------------

Now that we have a ``User`` class, we'll create a user provider, which will
grab user information from some web service, create a ``WebserviceUser`` object,
and populate it with data.

The user provider is just a plain PHP class that has to implement the 
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\User\\UserProviderInterface`, 
which requires three methods to be defined: ``loadUserByUsername($username)``,
``refreshUser(UserInterface $user)``, and ``supportsClass($class)``. For
more details, see :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\User\\UserProviderInterface`.

Here's an example of how this might look::

    // src/Acme/WebserviceUserBundle/Security/User/WebserviceUserProvider.php
    namespace Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User;

    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\User\UserProviderInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\User\UserInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Exception\UsernameNotFoundException;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Exception\UnsupportedUserException;

    class WebserviceUserProvider implements UserProviderInterface
    {
        public function loadUserByUsername($username)
        {
            // make a call to your webservice here
            // $userData = ...
            // pretend it returns an array on success, false if there is no user

            if ($userData) {
                // $password = '...';
                // ...

                return new WebserviceUser($username, $password, $salt, $roles)
            } else {
                throw new UsernameNotFoundException(sprintf('Username "%s" does not exist.', $username));
            }
        }

        public function refreshUser(UserInterface $user)
        {
            if (!$user instanceof WebserviceUser) {
                throw new UnsupportedUserException(sprintf('Instances of "%s" are not supported.', get_class($user)));
            }

            return $this->loadUserByUsername($user->getUsername());
        }

        public function supportsClass($class)
        {
            return $class === 'Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUser';
        }
    }

Create a Service for the User Provider
--------------------------------------

Now we make the user provider available as service.

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # src/Acme/MailerBundle/Resources/config/services.yml
        parameters:
            webservice_user_provider.class: Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUserProvider
            
        services:
            webservice_user_provider:
                class: %webservice_user_provider.class%
    
    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- src/Acme/WebserviceUserBundle/Resources/config/services.xml -->
        <parameters>
            <parameter key="webservice_user_provider.class">Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUserProvider</parameter>
        </parameters>
 
        <services>
            <service id="webservice_user_provider" class="%webservice_user_provider.class%"></service>
        </services>
        
    .. code-block:: php
    
        // src/Acme/WebserviceUserBundle/Resources/config/services.php
        use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Definition;
        
        $container->setParameter('webservice_user_provider.class', 'Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUserProvider');
        
        $container->setDefinition('webservice_user_provider', new Definition('%webservice_user_provider.class%');

.. tip::

    The real implementation of the user provider will probably have some
    dependencies or configuration options or other services. Add these as
    arguments in the service definition.

.. note::

    Make sure the services file is being imported. See :ref:`service-container-imports-directive`
    for details.

Modify ``security.yml``
-----------------------

In ``/app/config/security.yml`` everything comes together. Add the user provider
to the list of providers in the "security" section. Choose a name for the user provider 
(e.g. "webservice") and mention the id of the service you just defined.

.. code-block:: yaml

    security:
        providers:
            webservice:
                id: webservice_user_provider

Symfony also needs to know how to encode passwords that are supplied by website
users, e.g. by filling in a login form. You can do this by adding a line to the 
"encoders" section in ``/app/config/security.yml``. 

.. code-block:: yaml

    security:
        encoders:
            Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUser: sha512

The value here should correspond with however the passwords were originally
encoded when creating your users (however those users were created). When
a user submits her password, the password is appended to the salt value and
then encoded using this algorithm before being compared to the hashed password
returned by your ``getPassword()`` method.

.. sidebar:: Specifics on how passwords are encoded

    Symfony uses a specific method to combine the salt and encode the password
    before comparing it to your encoded password. If ``getSalt()`` returns
    nothing, then the submitted password is simply encoded using the algorithm
    you specify in ``security.yml``. If a salt *is* specified, then the following
    value is created and *then* hashed via the algorithm:
    
        ``$password.'{'.$salt.'}';``

    If your external users have their passwords salted via a different method,
    then you'll need to do a bit more work so that Symfony properly encodes
    the password. That is beyond the scope of this entry, but would include
    sub-classing ``MessageDigestPasswordEncoder`` and overriding the ``mergePasswordAndSalt``
    method.

Commit message:

[cookbook][security] Adding details on how the passwords are encoded multiple times and converted to base64 - per tip from @stof

cookbook/security/custom_provider.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Security; User Provider

How to create a custom User Provider
====================================

Part of Symfony's standard authentication process depends on "user providers".
When a user submits a username and password, the authentication layer asks
the configured user provider to return a user object for a given username.
Symfony then checks whether the password of this user is correct and generates
a security token so the user stays authenticated during the current session.
Out of the box, Symfony has an "in_memory" and an "entity" user provider.
In this entry we'll see how you can create your own user provider, which
could be useful if your users are accessed via a custom database, a file,
or - as we show in this example - a web service.

Create a User Class
-------------------

First, regardless of *where* your user data is coming from, you'll need to
create a ``User`` class that represents that data. The ``User`` can look
however you want and contain any data. The only requirement is that the
class implements :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\User\\UserInterface`.
The methods in this interface should therefore be defined in the custom user 
class: ``getRoles()``, ``getPassword()``, ``getSalt()``, ``getUsername()``,
``eraseCredentials()``, ``equals()``.

Let's see this in action::

    // src/Acme/WebserviceUserBundle/Security/User.php
    namespace Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User;

    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\User\UserInterface;

    class WebserviceUser implements UserInterface
    {
        private $username;
        private $password;
        private $salt;
        private $roles;

        public function __construct($username, $password, $salt, array $roles)
        {
            $this->username = $username;
            $this->password = $password;
            $this->salt = $salt;
            $this->roles = $roles;
        }

        public function getRoles()
        {
            return $this->roles;
        }

        public function getPassword()
        {
            return $this->password;
        }

        public function getSalt()
        {
            return $this->salt;
        }

        public function getUsername()
        {
            return $this->username;
        }   

        public function eraseCredentials()
        {
        }

        public function equals(UserInterface $user)
        {
            if (!$user instanceof WebserviceUser) {
                return false;
            }

            if ($this->password !== $user->getPassword()) {
                return false;
            }

            if ($this->getSalt() !== $user->getSalt()) {
                return false;
            }

            if ($this->username !== $user->getUsername()) {
                return false;
            }

            return true;
        }
    }

If you have more information about your users - like a "first name" - then
you can add a ``firstName`` field to hold that data.

For more details on each of the methods, see :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\User\\UserInterface`.

Create a User Provider
----------------------

Now that we have a ``User`` class, we'll create a user provider, which will
grab user information from some web service, create a ``WebserviceUser`` object,
and populate it with data.

The user provider is just a plain PHP class that has to implement the 
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\User\\UserProviderInterface`, 
which requires three methods to be defined: ``loadUserByUsername($username)``,
``refreshUser(UserInterface $user)``, and ``supportsClass($class)``. For
more details, see :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\User\\UserProviderInterface`.

Here's an example of how this might look::

    // src/Acme/WebserviceUserBundle/Security/User/WebserviceUserProvider.php
    namespace Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User;

    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\User\UserProviderInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\User\UserInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Exception\UsernameNotFoundException;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Exception\UnsupportedUserException;

    class WebserviceUserProvider implements UserProviderInterface
    {
        public function loadUserByUsername($username)
        {
            // make a call to your webservice here
            // $userData = ...
            // pretend it returns an array on success, false if there is no user

            if ($userData) {
                // $password = '...';
                // ...

                return new WebserviceUser($username, $password, $salt, $roles)
            } else {
                throw new UsernameNotFoundException(sprintf('Username "%s" does not exist.', $username));
            }
        }

        public function refreshUser(UserInterface $user)
        {
            if (!$user instanceof WebserviceUser) {
                throw new UnsupportedUserException(sprintf('Instances of "%s" are not supported.', get_class($user)));
            }

            return $this->loadUserByUsername($user->getUsername());
        }

        public function supportsClass($class)
        {
            return $class === 'Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUser';
        }
    }

Create a Service for the User Provider
--------------------------------------

Now we make the user provider available as service.

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # src/Acme/MailerBundle/Resources/config/services.yml
        parameters:
            webservice_user_provider.class: Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUserProvider
            
        services:
            webservice_user_provider:
                class: %webservice_user_provider.class%
    
    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- src/Acme/WebserviceUserBundle/Resources/config/services.xml -->
        <parameters>
            <parameter key="webservice_user_provider.class">Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUserProvider</parameter>
        </parameters>
 
        <services>
            <service id="webservice_user_provider" class="%webservice_user_provider.class%"></service>
        </services>
        
    .. code-block:: php
    
        // src/Acme/WebserviceUserBundle/Resources/config/services.php
        use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Definition;
        
        $container->setParameter('webservice_user_provider.class', 'Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUserProvider');
        
        $container->setDefinition('webservice_user_provider', new Definition('%webservice_user_provider.class%');

.. tip::

    The real implementation of the user provider will probably have some
    dependencies or configuration options or other services. Add these as
    arguments in the service definition.

.. note::

    Make sure the services file is being imported. See :ref:`service-container-imports-directive`
    for details.

Modify ``security.yml``
-----------------------

In ``/app/config/security.yml`` everything comes together. Add the user provider
to the list of providers in the "security" section. Choose a name for the user provider 
(e.g. "webservice") and mention the id of the service you just defined.

.. code-block:: yaml

    security:
        providers:
            webservice:
                id: webservice_user_provider

Symfony also needs to know how to encode passwords that are supplied by website
users, e.g. by filling in a login form. You can do this by adding a line to the 
"encoders" section in ``/app/config/security.yml``. 

.. code-block:: yaml

    security:
        encoders:
            Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUser: sha512

The value here should correspond with however the passwords were originally
encoded when creating your users (however those users were created). When
a user submits her password, the password is appended to the salt value and
then encoded using this algorithm before being compared to the hashed password
returned by your ``getPassword()`` method. Additionally, depending on your
options, the password may be encoded multiple times and encoded to base64.

.. sidebar:: Specifics on how passwords are encoded

    Symfony uses a specific method to combine the salt and encode the password
    before comparing it to your encoded password. If ``getSalt()`` returns
    nothing, then the submitted password is simply encoded using the algorithm
    you specify in ``security.yml``. If a salt *is* specified, then the following
    value is created and *then* hashed via the algorithm:
    
        ``$password.'{'.$salt.'}';``

    If your external users have their passwords salted via a different method,
    then you'll need to do a bit more work so that Symfony properly encodes
    the password. That is beyond the scope of this entry, but would include
    sub-classing ``MessageDigestPasswordEncoder`` and overriding the ``mergePasswordAndSalt``
    method.
    
    Additionally, the hash, by default, is encoded multiple times and encoded
    to base64. For specific details, see `MessageDigestPasswordEncoder`_.
    To prevent this, configure it in ``security.yml``:
    
    .. code-block:: yaml
    
        security:
            encoders:
                Acme\WebserviceUserBundle\Security\User\WebserviceUser:
                    algorithm: sha512
                    encode_as_base64: false
                    iterations: 1

.. _MessageDigestPasswordEncoder: https://github.com/symfony/symfony/blob/master/src/Symfony/Component/Security/Core/Encoder/MessageDigestPasswordEncoder.php
