cookbook/security/voters.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Security, Voters

How to implement your own Voter
===============================

The Symfony2 security component provides several layers to authenticate users.
One of the layers is called a `voter`. A voter is a dedicated class that checks
if the user has the rights to be connected to the application. For instance,
Symfony2 provides a layer that checks if the user is fully authenticated or if
it has some expected roles.

It is sometimes useful to create a custom voter to handle a specific case not
handled by the framework. In this section, you'll learn how to create a voter
that will allow you to blacklist users by their IP.

The Voter Interface
-------------------

A custom voter must implement
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\Authorization\\Voter\\VoterInterface`,
which requires the following three methods:

.. code-block:: php

    interface VoterInterface
    {
        function supportsAttribute($attribute);
        function supportsClass($class);
        function vote(TokenInterface $token, $object, array $attributes);
    }


The ``supportsAttribute()`` method is used to check if the voter supports
the given user attribute (i.e: a role, an acl, etc.).

The ``supportsClass()`` method is used to check if the voter supports the
current user token class.

The ``vote()`` method must implement the business logic that verifies whether
or not the user is granted access. This method must return one of the following
values:

* ``VoterInterface::ACCESS_GRANTED``: The user is allowed to access the application
* ``VoterInterface::ACCESS_ABSTAIN``: The voter cannot decide if the user is granted or not
* ``VoterInterface::ACCESS_DENIED``: The user is not allowed to access the application

In this example, we will check if the user's IP address matches against a list of
blacklisted addresses. If the user's IP is blacklisted, we will return 
``VoterInterface::ACCESS_DENIED``, otherwise we will return 
``VoterInterface::ACCESS_ABSTAIN`` as this voter's purpose is only to deny
access, not to grant access.

Creating a Custom Voter
-----------------------

To blacklist a user based on its IP, we can use the ``request`` service
and compare the IP address against a set of blacklisted IP addresses:

.. code-block:: php

    namespace Acme\DemoBundle\Security\Authorization\Voter;

    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authorization\Voter\VoterInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authentication\Token\TokenInterface;

    class ClientIpVoter implements VoterInterface
    {
        public function __construct(Request $request, array $blacklistedIp = array())
        {
            $this->request       = $request;
            $this->blacklistedIp = $blacklistedIp;
        }

        public function supportsAttribute($attribute)
        {
            // we won't check against a user attribute, so we return true
            return true;
        }

        public function supportsClass($class)
        {
            // our voter supports all type of token classes, so we return true
            return true;
        }

        function vote(TokenInterface $token, $object, array $attributes)
        {
            if (in_array($this->request->getClientIp(), $this->blacklistedIp)) {
                return VoterInterface::ACCESS_DENIED;
            }

            return VoterInterface::ACCESS_ABSTAIN;
        }
    }

That's it! The voter is done. The next step is to inject the voter into
the security layer. This can be done easily through the service container.

Declaring the Voter as a Service
--------------------------------

To inject the voter into the security layer, we must declare it as a service,
and tag it as a "security.voter":

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # src/Acme/AcmeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml

        services:
            security.access.blacklist_voter:
                class:      Acme\DemoBundle\Security\Authorization\Voter\ClientIpVoter
                arguments:  [@request, [123.123.123.123, 171.171.171.171]]
                public:     false
                tags:
                    -       { name: security.voter }

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- src/Acme/AcmeBundle/Resources/config/services.xml -->

        <service id="security.access.blacklist_voter"
                 class="Acme\DemoBundle\Security\Authorization\Voter\ClientIpVoter" public="false">
            <argument type="service" id="request" strict="false" />
            <argument type="collection">
                <argument>123.123.123.123</argument>
                <argument>171.171.171.171</argument>
            </argument>
            <tag name="security.voter" />
        </service>

    .. code-block:: php

        // src/Acme/AcmeBundle/Resources/config/services.php

        use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Definition;
        use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Reference;

        $definition = new Definition(
            'Acme\DemoBundle\Security\Authorization\Voter\ClientIpVoter',
            array(
                new Reference('request'),
                array('123.123.123.123', '171.171.171.171'),
            ),
        );
        $definition->addTag('security.voter');
        $definition->setPublic(false);

        $container->setDefinition('security.access.blacklist_voter', $definition);

.. tip::

   Be sure to import this configuration file from your main application
   configuration file (e.g. ``app/config/config.yml``). For more information
   see :ref:`service-container-imports-directive`. To read more about defining
   services in general, see the :doc:`/book/service_container` chapter.

That's it! Now, when deciding whether or not a user should have access,
the new voter will deny access to any user in the list of blacklisted IPs.

Commit message:

[security] added a note to change the voter strategy in the AccessDecisionManager object.

cookbook/security/voters.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Security, Voters

How to implement your own Voter
===============================

The Symfony2 security component provides several layers to authenticate users.
One of the layers is called a `voter`. A voter is a dedicated class that checks
if the user has the rights to be connected to the application. For instance,
Symfony2 provides a layer that checks if the user is fully authenticated or if
it has some expected roles.

It is sometimes useful to create a custom voter to handle a specific case not
handled by the framework. In this section, you'll learn how to create a voter
that will allow you to blacklist users by their IP.

The Voter Interface
-------------------

A custom voter must implement
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\Authorization\\Voter\\VoterInterface`,
which requires the following three methods:

.. code-block:: php

    interface VoterInterface
    {
        function supportsAttribute($attribute);
        function supportsClass($class);
        function vote(TokenInterface $token, $object, array $attributes);
    }


The ``supportsAttribute()`` method is used to check if the voter supports
the given user attribute (i.e: a role, an acl, etc.).

The ``supportsClass()`` method is used to check if the voter supports the
current user token class.

The ``vote()`` method must implement the business logic that verifies whether
or not the user is granted access. This method must return one of the following
values:

* ``VoterInterface::ACCESS_GRANTED``: The user is allowed to access the application
* ``VoterInterface::ACCESS_ABSTAIN``: The voter cannot decide if the user is granted or not
* ``VoterInterface::ACCESS_DENIED``: The user is not allowed to access the application

In this example, we will check if the user's IP address matches against a list of
blacklisted addresses. If the user's IP is blacklisted, we will return 
``VoterInterface::ACCESS_DENIED``, otherwise we will return 
``VoterInterface::ACCESS_ABSTAIN`` as this voter's purpose is only to deny
access, not to grant access.

Creating a Custom Voter
-----------------------

To blacklist a user based on its IP, we can use the ``request`` service
and compare the IP address against a set of blacklisted IP addresses:

.. code-block:: php

    namespace Acme\DemoBundle\Security\Authorization\Voter;

    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authorization\Voter\VoterInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Authentication\Token\TokenInterface;

    class ClientIpVoter implements VoterInterface
    {
        public function __construct(Request $request, array $blacklistedIp = array())
        {
            $this->request       = $request;
            $this->blacklistedIp = $blacklistedIp;
        }

        public function supportsAttribute($attribute)
        {
            // we won't check against a user attribute, so we return true
            return true;
        }

        public function supportsClass($class)
        {
            // our voter supports all type of token classes, so we return true
            return true;
        }

        function vote(TokenInterface $token, $object, array $attributes)
        {
            if (in_array($this->request->getClientIp(), $this->blacklistedIp)) {
                return VoterInterface::ACCESS_DENIED;
            }

            return VoterInterface::ACCESS_ABSTAIN;
        }
    }

That's it! The voter is done. The next step is to inject the voter into
the security layer. This can be done easily through the service container.

Declaring the Voter as a Service
--------------------------------

To inject the voter into the security layer, we must declare it as a service,
and tag it as a "security.voter":

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # src/Acme/AcmeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml

        services:
            security.access.blacklist_voter:
                class:      Acme\DemoBundle\Security\Authorization\Voter\ClientIpVoter
                arguments:  [@request, [123.123.123.123, 171.171.171.171]]
                public:     false
                tags:
                    -       { name: security.voter }

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- src/Acme/AcmeBundle/Resources/config/services.xml -->

        <service id="security.access.blacklist_voter"
                 class="Acme\DemoBundle\Security\Authorization\Voter\ClientIpVoter" public="false">
            <argument type="service" id="request" strict="false" />
            <argument type="collection">
                <argument>123.123.123.123</argument>
                <argument>171.171.171.171</argument>
            </argument>
            <tag name="security.voter" />
        </service>

    .. code-block:: php

        // src/Acme/AcmeBundle/Resources/config/services.php

        use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Definition;
        use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Reference;

        $definition = new Definition(
            'Acme\DemoBundle\Security\Authorization\Voter\ClientIpVoter',
            array(
                new Reference('request'),
                array('123.123.123.123', '171.171.171.171'),
            ),
        );
        $definition->addTag('security.voter');
        $definition->setPublic(false);

        $container->setDefinition('security.access.blacklist_voter', $definition);

.. tip::

   Be sure to import this configuration file from your main application
   configuration file (e.g. ``app/config/config.yml``). For more information
   see :ref:`service-container-imports-directive`. To read more about defining
   services in general, see the :doc:`/book/service_container` chapter.

Changing the Access Decision Strategy
-------------------------------------

In order to test the new voter, we need to change the default access
decision strategy, which grants by default access if any voter grants
access.

In our case, we will choose the ``unanimous`` strategy unlike
``affirmative`` strategy to enforce all voters to grant access. If only
one voter denies the access, access is not granted to the end user.

To do that, we just need to override the default
``access_decision_manager`` section of the ``app/config/security.yml``
file with the following code.

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # app/config/security.yml

        security:
            access_decision_manager:
                # Strategy can be: affirmative, unanimous or consensus
                strategy: unanimous

That's it! Now, when deciding whether or not a user should have access,
the new voter will deny access to any user in the list of blacklisted IPs.
