frontend/encore/simple-example.rst, before:

Encore: Setting up your Project
===============================

After :doc:`installing Encore </frontend/encore/installation>`, your app already
has a few files, organized into an ``assets/`` directory:

* ``assets/app.js``
* ``assets/bootstrap.js``
* ``assets/controllers.json``
* ``assets/styles/app.css``
* ``assets/controllers/hello_controller.js``

With Encore, think of your ``app.js`` file like a standalone JavaScript
application: it will *require* all of the dependencies it needs (e.g. jQuery or React),
*including* any CSS. Your ``app.js`` file is already doing this with a JavaScript
``import`` statement:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/app.js
    // ...

    import './styles/app.css';

Encore's job (via Webpack) is simple: to read and follow *all* of the ``import``
statements and create one final ``app.js`` (and ``app.css``) that contains *everything*
your app needs. Encore can do a lot more: minify files, pre-process Sass/LESS,
support React, Vue.js, etc.

The other files - ``bootstrap.js``, ``controllers.json`` and ``hello_controller.js``
relate to a topic you'll learn about soon: `Stimulus & Symfony UX`_.

Configuring Encore/Webpack
--------------------------

Everything in Encore is configured via a ``webpack.config.js`` file at the root
of your project. It already holds the basic config you need:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // webpack.config.js
    const Encore = require('@symfony/webpack-encore');

    Encore
        // directory where compiled assets will be stored
        .setOutputPath('public/build/')
        // public path used by the web server to access the output path
        .setPublicPath('/build')

        .addEntry('app', './assets/app.js')

        // uncomment this if you want use jQuery in the following example
        .autoProvidejQuery()
    ;

    // ...

The *key* part is ``addEntry()``: this tells Encore to load the ``assets/app.js``
file and follow *all* of the ``require()`` statements. It will then package everything
together and - thanks to the first ``app`` argument - output final ``app.js`` and
``app.css`` files into the ``public/build`` directory.

.. _encore-build-assets:

To build the assets, run the following if you use the Yarn package manager:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # compile assets and automatically re-compile when files change
    $ yarn watch
    # or
    $ npm run watch

    # or, run a dev-server that can sometimes update your code without refreshing the page
    $ yarn dev-server
    # or
    $ npm run dev-server
    
    # compile assets once
    $ yarn dev
    # or
    $ npm run dev

    # on deploy, create a production build
    $ yarn build
    # or
    $ npm run build

All of these commands - e.g. ``dev`` or ``watch`` - are shortcuts that are defined
in your ``package.json`` file.

.. caution::

    Whenever you make changes in your ``webpack.config.js`` file, you must
    stop and restart ``encore``.

Congrats! You now have three new files:

* ``public/build/app.js`` (holds all the JavaScript for your "app" entry)
* ``public/build/app.css`` (holds all the CSS for your "app" entry)
* ``public/build/runtime.js`` (a file that helps Webpack do its job)

.. note::

    In reality, you probably have a few *more* files in ``public/build``. Some of
    these are due to :doc:`code splitting </frontend/encore/split-chunks>`, an optimization
    that helps performance, but doesn't affect how things work. Others help Encore
    do its work.

Next, to include these in your base layout, you can leverage two Twig helpers from
WebpackEncoreBundle:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {# templates/base.html.twig #}
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <!-- ... -->

            {% block stylesheets %}
                {# 'app' must match the first argument to addEntry() in webpack.config.js #}
                {{ encore_entry_link_tags('app') }}

                <!-- Renders a link tag (if your module requires any CSS)
                     <link rel="stylesheet" href="/build/app.css"> -->
            {% endblock %}

            {% block javascripts %}
                {{ encore_entry_script_tags('app') }}

                <!-- Renders app.js & a webpack runtime.js file
                    <script src="/build/runtime.js" defer></script>
                    <script src="/build/app.js" defer></script>
                    See note below about the "defer" attribute -->
            {% endblock %}
        </head>

        <!-- ... -->
    </html>

.. _encore-entrypointsjson-simple-description:

That's it! When you refresh your page, all of the JavaScript from
``assets/app.js`` - as well as any other JavaScript files it included - will
be executed. All the CSS files that were required will also be displayed.

The ``encore_entry_link_tags()`` and ``encore_entry_script_tags()`` functions
read from a ``public/build/entrypoints.json`` file that's generated by Encore to know the exact
filename(s) to render. This file is *especially* useful because you can
:doc:`enable versioning </frontend/encore/versioning>` or
:doc:`point assets to a CDN </frontend/encore/cdn>` without making *any* changes to your
template: the paths in ``entrypoints.json`` will always be the final, correct paths.
And if you use :doc:`splitEntryChunks() </frontend/encore/split-chunks>` (where Webpack splits the output into even
more files), all the necessary ``script`` and ``link`` tags will render automatically.

If you're *not* using Symfony, you can ignore the ``entrypoints.json`` file and
point to the final, built file directly. ``entrypoints.json`` is only required for
some optional features.

.. versionadded:: 1.9.0

    The ``defer`` attribute on the ``script`` tags delays the execution of the
    JavaScript until the page loads (similar to putting the ``script`` at the
    bottom of the page). The ability to always add this attribute was introduced
    in WebpackEncoreBundle 1.9.0 and is automatically enabled in that bundle's
    recipe in the ``config/packages/webpack_encore.yaml`` file. See
    `WebpackEncoreBundle Configuration`_ for more details.

Requiring JavaScript Modules
----------------------------

Webpack is a module bundler, which means that you can ``import`` other JavaScript
files. First, create a file that exports a function, class or any other value:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/greet.js
    export default function(name) {
        return `Yo yo ${name} - welcome to Encore!`;
    };

We'll use jQuery to print this message on the page. Install it via:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # if you use the Yarn package manager
    $ yarn add jquery --dev

    # if you use the npm package manager
    $ npm install jquery --save-dev

Great! Use ``import`` to import ``jquery`` and ``greet.js``:

.. code-block:: diff

      // assets/app.js
      // ...

    + // loads the jquery package from node_modules
    + import $ from 'jquery';

    + // import the function from greet.js (the .js extension is optional)
    + // ./ (or ../) means to look for a local file
    + import greet from './greet';

    + $(document).ready(function() {
    +     $('body').prepend('<h1>'+greet('jill')+'</h1>');
    + });

That's it! If you previously ran ``encore dev --watch``, your final, built files
have already been updated: jQuery and ``greet.js`` have been automatically
added to the output file (``app.js``). Refresh to see the message!

Stimulus & Symfony UX
---------------------

As simple as the above example is, instead of building your application inside of
``app.js``, we recommend `Stimulus`_: a small JavaScript framework that makes it
easy to attach behavior to HTML. It's powerful, and you will love it! Symfony
even provides packages to add more features to Stimulus. These are called the
Symfony UX Packages.

If you followed the setup instructions, you should already have Stimulus installed
and ready to go! In fact, that's the purpose of the ``assets/bootstrap.js`` file:
to initialize Stimulus and automatically load any "controllers" from the
``assets/controllers/`` directory.

Let's look at a simple Stimulus example. In a Twig template, suppose you have:

.. code-block:: twig

    <div {{ stimulus_controller('say-hello') }}>
        <input type="text" {{ stimulus_target('say-hello', 'name') }}>

        <button {{ stimulus_action('say-hello', 'greet') }}>
            Greet
        </button>

        <div {{ stimulus_target('say-hello', 'output') }}></div>
    </div>

The ``stimulus_controller('say-hello')`` renders a ``data-controller="say-hello"``
attribute. Whenever this element appears on the page, Stimulus will automatically
look for and initialize a controller called ``say-hello-controller.js``. Create
that in your ``assets/controllers/`` directory:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/controllers/say-hello-controller.js
    import { Controller } from '@hotwired/stimulus';

    export default class extends Controller {
        static targets = ['name', 'output']

        greet() {
          this.outputTarget.textContent = `Hello, ${this.nameTarget.value}!`
        }
    }

The result? When you click the "Greet" button, it prints your name! And if
more ``{{ stimulus_controller('say-hello') }}`` elements are added to the page - like
via Ajax - those will instantly work: no need to reinitialize anything.

Ready to learn more about Stimulus?

* Read the `Stimulus Documentation`_
* Find out more about how the :doc:`Symfony UX system works </frontend/ux>`
* See a :ref:`list of all Symfony UX packages <ux-packages-list>`
* Learn more about the `Symfony Stimulus Bridge`_ - including the superpower of
  making your controllers load lazily!

  .. admonition:: Screencast
      :class: screencast

      Or check out the `Stimulus Screencast`_ on SymfonyCasts.

Turbo: Lightning Fast Single-Page-Application Experience
--------------------------------------------------------

Symfony comes with tight integration with another JavaScript library called `Turbo`_.
Turbo automatically transforms all link clicks and form submits into an Ajax call,
with zero (or nearly zero) changes to your Symfony code! The result? You get the
speed of a single page application without having to write any JavaScript.

To learn more, check out the `symfony/ux-turbo`_ package.

.. admonition:: Screencast
    :class: screencast

    Or check out the `Turbo Screencast`_ on SymfonyCasts.

Page-Specific JavaScript or CSS
-------------------------------

So far, you only have one final JavaScript file: ``app.js``. Encore may be split
into multiple files for performance (see :doc:`split chunks </frontend/encore/split-chunks>`),
but all of that code is still downloaded on every page.

What if you have some extra JavaScript or CSS (e.g. for performance) that you only
want to include on *certain* pages?

Lazy Controllers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One very nice solution if you're using Stimulus is to leverage `lazy controllers`_.
To activate this on a controller, add a special ``stimulusFetch: 'lazy'`` above
your controller class:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/controllers/lazy-example-controller.js
    import { Controller } from '@hotwired/stimulus';

    /* stimulusFetch: 'lazy' */
    export default class extends Controller {
        // ...
    }

That's it! This controller's code - and any modules that it imports - will be
split to *separate* files by Encore. Then, those files won't be downloaded until
the moment a matching element (e.g. ``<div data-controller="lazy-example">``)
appears on the page!

.. note::

    If you write your controllers using TypeScript, make sure
    ``removeComments`` is not set to ``true`` in your TypeScript config.

.. _multiple-javascript-entries:

Multiple Entries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another option is to create page-specific JavaScript or CSS (e.g. checkout, account,
etc.). To handle this, create a new "entry" JavaScript file for each page:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/checkout.js
    // custom code for your checkout page

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/account.js
    // custom code for your account page

Next, use ``addEntry()`` to tell Webpack to read these two new files when it builds:

.. code-block:: diff

      // webpack.config.js
      Encore
          // ...
          .addEntry('app', './assets/app.js')
    +     .addEntry('checkout', './assets/checkout.js')
    +     .addEntry('account', './assets/account.js')
          // ...

And because you just changed the ``webpack.config.js`` file, make sure to stop
and restart Encore:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # if you use the Yarn package manager
    $ yarn watch

    # if you use the npm package manager
    $ npm run watch

Webpack will now output a new ``checkout.js`` file and a new ``account.js`` file
in your build directory. And, if any of those files require/import CSS, Webpack
will *also* output ``checkout.css`` and ``account.css`` files.

Finally, include the ``script`` and ``link`` tags on the individual pages where
you need them:

.. code-block:: diff

      {# templates/.../checkout.html.twig #}
      {% extends 'base.html.twig' %}

    + {% block stylesheets %}
    +     {{ parent() }}
    +     {{ encore_entry_link_tags('checkout') }}
    + {% endblock %}

    + {% block javascripts %}
    +     {{ parent() }}
    +     {{ encore_entry_script_tags('checkout') }}
    + {% endblock %}

Now, the checkout page will contain all the JavaScript and CSS for the ``app`` entry
(because this is included in ``base.html.twig`` and there is the ``{{ parent() }}`` call)
*and* your ``checkout`` entry. With this, JavaScript & CSS needed for every page
can live inside the ``app`` entry and code needed only for the checkout page can
live inside ``checkout``.

Using Sass/LESS/Stylus
----------------------

You've already mastered the basics of Encore. Nice! But, there are *many* more
features that you can opt into if you need them. For example, instead of using plain
CSS you can also use Sass, LESS or Stylus. To use Sass, rename the ``app.css``
file to ``app.scss`` and update the ``import`` statement:

.. code-block:: diff

      // assets/app.js
    - import './styles/app.css';
    + import './styles/app.scss';

Then, tell Encore to enable the Sass preprocessor:

.. code-block:: diff

      // webpack.config.js
      Encore
          // ...

    +    .enableSassLoader()
      ;

Because you just changed your ``webpack.config.js`` file, you'll need to restart
Encore. When you do, you'll see an error!

.. code-block:: terminal

    >   Error: Install sass-loader & sass to use enableSassLoader()
    >     yarn add sass-loader@^12.0.0 sass --dev

Encore supports many features. But, instead of forcing all of them on you, when
you need a feature, Encore will tell you what you need to install. Run:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # if you use the Yarn package manager
    $ yarn add sass-loader@^12.0.0 sass --dev
    $ yarn encore dev --watch

    # if you use the npm package manager
    $ npm install sass-loader@^12.0.0 sass --save-dev
    $ npm run watch

Your app now supports Sass. Encore also supports LESS and Stylus. See
:doc:`/frontend/encore/css-preprocessors`.

Compiling Only a CSS File
-------------------------

.. caution::

    Using ``addStyleEntry()`` is supported, but not recommended. A better option
    is to follow the pattern above: use ``addEntry()`` to point to a JavaScript
    file, then require the CSS needed from inside of that.

If you want to only compile a CSS file, that's possible via ``addStyleEntry()``:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // webpack.config.js
    Encore
        // ...

        .addStyleEntry('some_page', './assets/styles/some_page.css')
    ;

This will output a new ``some_page.css``.

Keep Going!
-----------

Encore supports many more features! For a full list of what you can do, see
`Encore's index.js file`_. Or, go back to :ref:`list of Frontend articles <encore-toc>`.

.. _`Encore's index.js file`: https://github.com/symfony/webpack-encore/blob/master/index.js
.. _`WebpackEncoreBundle Configuration`: https://github.com/symfony/webpack-encore-bundle#configuration
.. _`Stimulus`: https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/
.. _`Stimulus Documentation`: https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/handbook/introduction
.. _`Symfony Stimulus Bridge`: https://github.com/symfony/stimulus-bridge
.. _`Turbo`: https://turbo.hotwired.dev/
.. _`symfony/ux-turbo`: https://symfony.com/bundles/ux-turbo/current/index.html
.. _`Stimulus Screencast`: https://symfonycasts.com/screencast/stimulus
.. _`Turbo Screencast`: https://symfonycasts.com/screencast/turbo
.. _`lazy controllers`: https://github.com/symfony/stimulus-bridge#lazy-controllers

Commit message:

Clarifying not about Encore outside of Symfony

frontend/encore/simple-example.rst, after:

Encore: Setting up your Project
===============================

After :doc:`installing Encore </frontend/encore/installation>`, your app already
has a few files, organized into an ``assets/`` directory:

* ``assets/app.js``
* ``assets/bootstrap.js``
* ``assets/controllers.json``
* ``assets/styles/app.css``
* ``assets/controllers/hello_controller.js``

With Encore, think of your ``app.js`` file like a standalone JavaScript
application: it will *require* all of the dependencies it needs (e.g. jQuery or React),
*including* any CSS. Your ``app.js`` file is already doing this with a JavaScript
``import`` statement:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/app.js
    // ...

    import './styles/app.css';

Encore's job (via Webpack) is simple: to read and follow *all* of the ``import``
statements and create one final ``app.js`` (and ``app.css``) that contains *everything*
your app needs. Encore can do a lot more: minify files, pre-process Sass/LESS,
support React, Vue.js, etc.

The other files - ``bootstrap.js``, ``controllers.json`` and ``hello_controller.js``
relate to a topic you'll learn about soon: `Stimulus & Symfony UX`_.

Configuring Encore/Webpack
--------------------------

Everything in Encore is configured via a ``webpack.config.js`` file at the root
of your project. It already holds the basic config you need:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // webpack.config.js
    const Encore = require('@symfony/webpack-encore');

    Encore
        // directory where compiled assets will be stored
        .setOutputPath('public/build/')
        // public path used by the web server to access the output path
        .setPublicPath('/build')

        .addEntry('app', './assets/app.js')

        // uncomment this if you want use jQuery in the following example
        .autoProvidejQuery()
    ;

    // ...

The *key* part is ``addEntry()``: this tells Encore to load the ``assets/app.js``
file and follow *all* of the ``require()`` statements. It will then package everything
together and - thanks to the first ``app`` argument - output final ``app.js`` and
``app.css`` files into the ``public/build`` directory.

.. _encore-build-assets:

To build the assets, run the following if you use the Yarn package manager:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # compile assets and automatically re-compile when files change
    $ yarn watch
    # or
    $ npm run watch

    # or, run a dev-server that can sometimes update your code without refreshing the page
    $ yarn dev-server
    # or
    $ npm run dev-server
    
    # compile assets once
    $ yarn dev
    # or
    $ npm run dev

    # on deploy, create a production build
    $ yarn build
    # or
    $ npm run build

All of these commands - e.g. ``dev`` or ``watch`` - are shortcuts that are defined
in your ``package.json`` file.

.. caution::

    Whenever you make changes in your ``webpack.config.js`` file, you must
    stop and restart ``encore``.

Congrats! You now have three new files:

* ``public/build/app.js`` (holds all the JavaScript for your "app" entry)
* ``public/build/app.css`` (holds all the CSS for your "app" entry)
* ``public/build/runtime.js`` (a file that helps Webpack do its job)

.. note::

    In reality, you probably have a few *more* files in ``public/build``. Some of
    these are due to :doc:`code splitting </frontend/encore/split-chunks>`, an optimization
    that helps performance, but doesn't affect how things work. Others help Encore
    do its work.

Next, to include these in your base layout, you can leverage two Twig helpers from
WebpackEncoreBundle:

.. code-block:: html+twig

    {# templates/base.html.twig #}
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <!-- ... -->

            {% block stylesheets %}
                {# 'app' must match the first argument to addEntry() in webpack.config.js #}
                {{ encore_entry_link_tags('app') }}

                <!-- Renders a link tag (if your module requires any CSS)
                     <link rel="stylesheet" href="/build/app.css"> -->
            {% endblock %}

            {% block javascripts %}
                {{ encore_entry_script_tags('app') }}

                <!-- Renders app.js & a webpack runtime.js file
                    <script src="/build/runtime.js" defer></script>
                    <script src="/build/app.js" defer></script>
                    See note below about the "defer" attribute -->
            {% endblock %}
        </head>

        <!-- ... -->
    </html>

.. _encore-entrypointsjson-simple-description:

That's it! When you refresh your page, all of the JavaScript from
``assets/app.js`` - as well as any other JavaScript files it included - will
be executed. All the CSS files that were required will also be displayed.

The ``encore_entry_link_tags()`` and ``encore_entry_script_tags()`` functions
read from a ``public/build/entrypoints.json`` file that's generated by Encore to know the exact
filename(s) to render. This file is *especially* useful because you can
:doc:`enable versioning </frontend/encore/versioning>` or
:doc:`point assets to a CDN </frontend/encore/cdn>` without making *any* changes to your
template: the paths in ``entrypoints.json`` will always be the final, correct paths.
And if you use :doc:`splitEntryChunks() </frontend/encore/split-chunks>` (where Webpack splits the output into even
more files), all the necessary ``script`` and ``link`` tags will render automatically.

If you are not using Symfony you won't have the ``encore_entry_*`` functions available.
Instead, you can point directly to the final built files or write code to parse
``entrypoints.json`` manually. The entrypoints file is needed only if you're using
certain optional features, like ``splitEntryChunks()``.

.. versionadded:: 1.9.0

    The ``defer`` attribute on the ``script`` tags delays the execution of the
    JavaScript until the page loads (similar to putting the ``script`` at the
    bottom of the page). The ability to always add this attribute was introduced
    in WebpackEncoreBundle 1.9.0 and is automatically enabled in that bundle's
    recipe in the ``config/packages/webpack_encore.yaml`` file. See
    `WebpackEncoreBundle Configuration`_ for more details.

Requiring JavaScript Modules
----------------------------

Webpack is a module bundler, which means that you can ``import`` other JavaScript
files. First, create a file that exports a function, class or any other value:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/greet.js
    export default function(name) {
        return `Yo yo ${name} - welcome to Encore!`;
    };

We'll use jQuery to print this message on the page. Install it via:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # if you use the Yarn package manager
    $ yarn add jquery --dev

    # if you use the npm package manager
    $ npm install jquery --save-dev

Great! Use ``import`` to import ``jquery`` and ``greet.js``:

.. code-block:: diff

      // assets/app.js
      // ...

    + // loads the jquery package from node_modules
    + import $ from 'jquery';

    + // import the function from greet.js (the .js extension is optional)
    + // ./ (or ../) means to look for a local file
    + import greet from './greet';

    + $(document).ready(function() {
    +     $('body').prepend('<h1>'+greet('jill')+'</h1>');
    + });

That's it! If you previously ran ``encore dev --watch``, your final, built files
have already been updated: jQuery and ``greet.js`` have been automatically
added to the output file (``app.js``). Refresh to see the message!

Stimulus & Symfony UX
---------------------

As simple as the above example is, instead of building your application inside of
``app.js``, we recommend `Stimulus`_: a small JavaScript framework that makes it
easy to attach behavior to HTML. It's powerful, and you will love it! Symfony
even provides packages to add more features to Stimulus. These are called the
Symfony UX Packages.

If you followed the setup instructions, you should already have Stimulus installed
and ready to go! In fact, that's the purpose of the ``assets/bootstrap.js`` file:
to initialize Stimulus and automatically load any "controllers" from the
``assets/controllers/`` directory.

Let's look at a simple Stimulus example. In a Twig template, suppose you have:

.. code-block:: twig

    <div {{ stimulus_controller('say-hello') }}>
        <input type="text" {{ stimulus_target('say-hello', 'name') }}>

        <button {{ stimulus_action('say-hello', 'greet') }}>
            Greet
        </button>

        <div {{ stimulus_target('say-hello', 'output') }}></div>
    </div>

The ``stimulus_controller('say-hello')`` renders a ``data-controller="say-hello"``
attribute. Whenever this element appears on the page, Stimulus will automatically
look for and initialize a controller called ``say-hello-controller.js``. Create
that in your ``assets/controllers/`` directory:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/controllers/say-hello-controller.js
    import { Controller } from '@hotwired/stimulus';

    export default class extends Controller {
        static targets = ['name', 'output']

        greet() {
          this.outputTarget.textContent = `Hello, ${this.nameTarget.value}!`
        }
    }

The result? When you click the "Greet" button, it prints your name! And if
more ``{{ stimulus_controller('say-hello') }}`` elements are added to the page - like
via Ajax - those will instantly work: no need to reinitialize anything.

Ready to learn more about Stimulus?

* Read the `Stimulus Documentation`_
* Find out more about how the :doc:`Symfony UX system works </frontend/ux>`
* See a :ref:`list of all Symfony UX packages <ux-packages-list>`
* Learn more about the `Symfony Stimulus Bridge`_ - including the superpower of
  making your controllers load lazily!

  .. admonition:: Screencast
      :class: screencast

      Or check out the `Stimulus Screencast`_ on SymfonyCasts.

Turbo: Lightning Fast Single-Page-Application Experience
--------------------------------------------------------

Symfony comes with tight integration with another JavaScript library called `Turbo`_.
Turbo automatically transforms all link clicks and form submits into an Ajax call,
with zero (or nearly zero) changes to your Symfony code! The result? You get the
speed of a single page application without having to write any JavaScript.

To learn more, check out the `symfony/ux-turbo`_ package.

.. admonition:: Screencast
    :class: screencast

    Or check out the `Turbo Screencast`_ on SymfonyCasts.

Page-Specific JavaScript or CSS
-------------------------------

So far, you only have one final JavaScript file: ``app.js``. Encore may be split
into multiple files for performance (see :doc:`split chunks </frontend/encore/split-chunks>`),
but all of that code is still downloaded on every page.

What if you have some extra JavaScript or CSS (e.g. for performance) that you only
want to include on *certain* pages?

Lazy Controllers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One very nice solution if you're using Stimulus is to leverage `lazy controllers`_.
To activate this on a controller, add a special ``stimulusFetch: 'lazy'`` above
your controller class:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/controllers/lazy-example-controller.js
    import { Controller } from '@hotwired/stimulus';

    /* stimulusFetch: 'lazy' */
    export default class extends Controller {
        // ...
    }

That's it! This controller's code - and any modules that it imports - will be
split to *separate* files by Encore. Then, those files won't be downloaded until
the moment a matching element (e.g. ``<div data-controller="lazy-example">``)
appears on the page!

.. note::

    If you write your controllers using TypeScript, make sure
    ``removeComments`` is not set to ``true`` in your TypeScript config.

.. _multiple-javascript-entries:

Multiple Entries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another option is to create page-specific JavaScript or CSS (e.g. checkout, account,
etc.). To handle this, create a new "entry" JavaScript file for each page:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/checkout.js
    // custom code for your checkout page

.. code-block:: javascript

    // assets/account.js
    // custom code for your account page

Next, use ``addEntry()`` to tell Webpack to read these two new files when it builds:

.. code-block:: diff

      // webpack.config.js
      Encore
          // ...
          .addEntry('app', './assets/app.js')
    +     .addEntry('checkout', './assets/checkout.js')
    +     .addEntry('account', './assets/account.js')
          // ...

And because you just changed the ``webpack.config.js`` file, make sure to stop
and restart Encore:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # if you use the Yarn package manager
    $ yarn watch

    # if you use the npm package manager
    $ npm run watch

Webpack will now output a new ``checkout.js`` file and a new ``account.js`` file
in your build directory. And, if any of those files require/import CSS, Webpack
will *also* output ``checkout.css`` and ``account.css`` files.

Finally, include the ``script`` and ``link`` tags on the individual pages where
you need them:

.. code-block:: diff

      {# templates/.../checkout.html.twig #}
      {% extends 'base.html.twig' %}

    + {% block stylesheets %}
    +     {{ parent() }}
    +     {{ encore_entry_link_tags('checkout') }}
    + {% endblock %}

    + {% block javascripts %}
    +     {{ parent() }}
    +     {{ encore_entry_script_tags('checkout') }}
    + {% endblock %}

Now, the checkout page will contain all the JavaScript and CSS for the ``app`` entry
(because this is included in ``base.html.twig`` and there is the ``{{ parent() }}`` call)
*and* your ``checkout`` entry. With this, JavaScript & CSS needed for every page
can live inside the ``app`` entry and code needed only for the checkout page can
live inside ``checkout``.

Using Sass/LESS/Stylus
----------------------

You've already mastered the basics of Encore. Nice! But, there are *many* more
features that you can opt into if you need them. For example, instead of using plain
CSS you can also use Sass, LESS or Stylus. To use Sass, rename the ``app.css``
file to ``app.scss`` and update the ``import`` statement:

.. code-block:: diff

      // assets/app.js
    - import './styles/app.css';
    + import './styles/app.scss';

Then, tell Encore to enable the Sass preprocessor:

.. code-block:: diff

      // webpack.config.js
      Encore
          // ...

    +    .enableSassLoader()
      ;

Because you just changed your ``webpack.config.js`` file, you'll need to restart
Encore. When you do, you'll see an error!

.. code-block:: terminal

    >   Error: Install sass-loader & sass to use enableSassLoader()
    >     yarn add sass-loader@^12.0.0 sass --dev

Encore supports many features. But, instead of forcing all of them on you, when
you need a feature, Encore will tell you what you need to install. Run:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # if you use the Yarn package manager
    $ yarn add sass-loader@^12.0.0 sass --dev
    $ yarn encore dev --watch

    # if you use the npm package manager
    $ npm install sass-loader@^12.0.0 sass --save-dev
    $ npm run watch

Your app now supports Sass. Encore also supports LESS and Stylus. See
:doc:`/frontend/encore/css-preprocessors`.

Compiling Only a CSS File
-------------------------

.. caution::

    Using ``addStyleEntry()`` is supported, but not recommended. A better option
    is to follow the pattern above: use ``addEntry()`` to point to a JavaScript
    file, then require the CSS needed from inside of that.

If you want to only compile a CSS file, that's possible via ``addStyleEntry()``:

.. code-block:: javascript

    // webpack.config.js
    Encore
        // ...

        .addStyleEntry('some_page', './assets/styles/some_page.css')
    ;

This will output a new ``some_page.css``.

Keep Going!
-----------

Encore supports many more features! For a full list of what you can do, see
`Encore's index.js file`_. Or, go back to :ref:`list of Frontend articles <encore-toc>`.

.. _`Encore's index.js file`: https://github.com/symfony/webpack-encore/blob/master/index.js
.. _`WebpackEncoreBundle Configuration`: https://github.com/symfony/webpack-encore-bundle#configuration
.. _`Stimulus`: https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/
.. _`Stimulus Documentation`: https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/handbook/introduction
.. _`Symfony Stimulus Bridge`: https://github.com/symfony/stimulus-bridge
.. _`Turbo`: https://turbo.hotwired.dev/
.. _`symfony/ux-turbo`: https://symfony.com/bundles/ux-turbo/current/index.html
.. _`Stimulus Screencast`: https://symfonycasts.com/screencast/stimulus
.. _`Turbo Screencast`: https://symfonycasts.com/screencast/turbo
.. _`lazy controllers`: https://github.com/symfony/stimulus-bridge#lazy-controllers
