cookbook/tools/autoloader.rst, before:

.. index::
   pair: Autoloader; Configuration

How to autoload Classes
=======================

Whenever you use an undefined class, PHP uses the autoloading mechanism to
delegate the loading of a file defining the class. Symfony2 provides a
"universal" autoloader, which is able to load classes from files that implement
one of the following conventions:

* The technical interoperability `standards`_ for PHP 5.3 namespaces and class
  names;

* The `PEAR`_ naming convention for classes.

If your classes and the third-party libraries you use for your project follow
these standards, the Symfony2 autoloader is the only autoloader you will ever
need.

Usage
-----

Registering the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader`
autoloader is straightforward::

    require_once '/path/to/src/Symfony/Component/ClassLoader/UniversalClassLoader.php';

    use Symfony\Component\ClassLoader\UniversalClassLoader;

    // Search the include_path as a last resort.
    $loader->useIncludePath(true);

    $loader = new UniversalClassLoader();
    $loader->register();

For minor performance gains class paths can be cached in memory using APC by
registering the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\ApcUniversalClassLoader`::

    require_once '/path/to/src/Symfony/Component/ClassLoader/UniversalClassLoader.php';
    require_once '/path/to/src/Symfony/Component/ClassLoader/ApcUniversalClassLoader.php';

    use Symfony\Component\ClassLoader\ApcUniversalClassLoader;

    $loader = new ApcUniversalClassLoader('apc.prefix.');
    $loader->register();

The autoloader is useful only if you add some libraries to autoload.

.. note::

    The autoloader is automatically registered in a Symfony2 application (see
    ``app/autoload.php``).

If the classes to autoload use namespaces, use the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader::registerNamespace`
or
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader::registerNamespaces`
methods::

    $loader->registerNamespace('Symfony', __DIR__.'/vendor/symfony/src');

    $loader->registerNamespaces(array(
        'Symfony' => __DIR__.'/../vendor/symfony/src',
        'Monolog' => __DIR__.'/../vendor/monolog/src',
    ));

For classes that follow the PEAR naming convention, use the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader::registerPrefix`
or
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader::registerPrefixes`
methods::

    $loader->registerPrefix('Twig_', __DIR__.'/vendor/twig/lib');

    $loader->registerPrefixes(array(
        'Swift_' => __DIR__.'/vendor/swiftmailer/lib/classes',
        'Twig_'  => __DIR__.'/vendor/twig/lib',
    ));

.. note::

    Some libraries also require their root path be registered in the PHP
    include path (``set_include_path()``).

Classes from a sub-namespace or a sub-hierarchy of PEAR classes can be looked
for in a location list to ease the vendoring of a sub-set of classes for large
projects::

    $loader->registerNamespaces(array(
        'Doctrine\\Common'           => __DIR__.'/vendor/doctrine-common/lib',
        'Doctrine\\DBAL\\Migrations' => __DIR__.'/vendor/doctrine-migrations/lib',
        'Doctrine\\DBAL'             => __DIR__.'/vendor/doctrine-dbal/lib',
        'Doctrine'                   => __DIR__.'/vendor/doctrine/lib',
    ));

In this example, if you try to use a class in the ``Doctrine\Common`` namespace
or one of its children, the autoloader will first look for the class under the
``doctrine-common`` directory, and it will then fallback to the default
``Doctrine`` directory (the last one configured) if not found, before giving up.
The order of the registrations is significant in this case.

.. _standards: http://groups.google.com/group/php-standards/web/psr-0-final-proposal
.. _PEAR:      http://pear.php.net/manual/en/standards.php

Commit message:

[cookbook][tools] Adding the versionadded tag for the useIncludePath method

cookbook/tools/autoloader.rst, after:

.. index::
   pair: Autoloader; Configuration

How to autoload Classes
=======================

Whenever you use an undefined class, PHP uses the autoloading mechanism to
delegate the loading of a file defining the class. Symfony2 provides a
"universal" autoloader, which is able to load classes from files that implement
one of the following conventions:

* The technical interoperability `standards`_ for PHP 5.3 namespaces and class
  names;

* The `PEAR`_ naming convention for classes.

If your classes and the third-party libraries you use for your project follow
these standards, the Symfony2 autoloader is the only autoloader you will ever
need.

Usage
-----

.. versionadded:: 2.1
   The ``useIncludePath`` method was added in Symfony 2.1.

Registering the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader`
autoloader is straightforward::

    require_once '/path/to/src/Symfony/Component/ClassLoader/UniversalClassLoader.php';

    use Symfony\Component\ClassLoader\UniversalClassLoader;

    // Search the include_path as a last resort.
    $loader->useIncludePath(true);

    $loader = new UniversalClassLoader();
    $loader->register();

For minor performance gains class paths can be cached in memory using APC by
registering the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\ApcUniversalClassLoader`::

    require_once '/path/to/src/Symfony/Component/ClassLoader/UniversalClassLoader.php';
    require_once '/path/to/src/Symfony/Component/ClassLoader/ApcUniversalClassLoader.php';

    use Symfony\Component\ClassLoader\ApcUniversalClassLoader;

    $loader = new ApcUniversalClassLoader('apc.prefix.');
    $loader->register();

The autoloader is useful only if you add some libraries to autoload.

.. note::

    The autoloader is automatically registered in a Symfony2 application (see
    ``app/autoload.php``).

If the classes to autoload use namespaces, use the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader::registerNamespace`
or
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader::registerNamespaces`
methods::

    $loader->registerNamespace('Symfony', __DIR__.'/vendor/symfony/src');

    $loader->registerNamespaces(array(
        'Symfony' => __DIR__.'/../vendor/symfony/src',
        'Monolog' => __DIR__.'/../vendor/monolog/src',
    ));

For classes that follow the PEAR naming convention, use the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader::registerPrefix`
or
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\ClassLoader\\UniversalClassLoader::registerPrefixes`
methods::

    $loader->registerPrefix('Twig_', __DIR__.'/vendor/twig/lib');

    $loader->registerPrefixes(array(
        'Swift_' => __DIR__.'/vendor/swiftmailer/lib/classes',
        'Twig_'  => __DIR__.'/vendor/twig/lib',
    ));

.. note::

    Some libraries also require their root path be registered in the PHP
    include path (``set_include_path()``).

Classes from a sub-namespace or a sub-hierarchy of PEAR classes can be looked
for in a location list to ease the vendoring of a sub-set of classes for large
projects::

    $loader->registerNamespaces(array(
        'Doctrine\\Common'           => __DIR__.'/vendor/doctrine-common/lib',
        'Doctrine\\DBAL\\Migrations' => __DIR__.'/vendor/doctrine-migrations/lib',
        'Doctrine\\DBAL'             => __DIR__.'/vendor/doctrine-dbal/lib',
        'Doctrine'                   => __DIR__.'/vendor/doctrine/lib',
    ));

In this example, if you try to use a class in the ``Doctrine\Common`` namespace
or one of its children, the autoloader will first look for the class under the
``doctrine-common`` directory, and it will then fallback to the default
``Doctrine`` directory (the last one configured) if not found, before giving up.
The order of the registrations is significant in this case.

.. _standards: http://groups.google.com/group/php-standards/web/psr-0-final-proposal
.. _PEAR:      http://pear.php.net/manual/en/standards.php
