The EventDispatcher Component
=============================

Our framework is still missing a major characteristic of any good framework:
*extensibility*. Being extensible means that the developer should be able to
hook into the framework life cycle to modify the way the request is handled.

What kind of hooks are we talking about? Authentication or caching for
instance. To be flexible, hooks must be plug-and-play; the ones you "register"
for an application are different from the next one depending on your specific
needs. Many software have a similar concept like Drupal or Wordpress. In some
languages, there is even a standard like `WSGI`_ in Python or `Rack`_ in Ruby.

As there is no standard for PHP, we are going to use a well-known design
pattern, the *Mediator*, to allow any kind of behaviors to be attached to our
framework; the Symfony EventDispatcher Component implements a lightweight
version of this pattern:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/event-dispatcher

How does it work? The *dispatcher*, the central object of the event dispatcher
system, notifies *listeners* of an *event* dispatched to it. Put another way:
your code dispatches an event to the dispatcher, the dispatcher notifies all
registered listeners for the event, and each listener do whatever it wants
with the event.

As an example, let's create a listener that transparently adds the Google
Analytics code to all responses.

To make it work, the framework must dispatch an event just before returning
the Response instance::

    // example.com/src/Simplex/Framework.php
    namespace Simplex;

    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventDispatcher;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Controller\ArgumentResolverInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Controller\ControllerResolverInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Routing\Exception\ResourceNotFoundException;
    use Symfony\Component\Routing\Matcher\UrlMatcherInterface;

    class Framework
    {
        private $dispatcher;
        private $matcher;
        private $controllerResolver;
        private $argumentResolver;

        public function __construct(EventDispatcher $dispatcher, UrlMatcherInterface $matcher, ControllerResolverInterface $controllerResolver, ArgumentResolverInterface $argumentResolver)
        {
            $this->dispatcher = $dispatcher;
            $this->matcher = $matcher;
            $this->controllerResolver = $controllerResolver;
            $this->argumentResolver = $argumentResolver;
        }

        public function handle(Request $request)
        {
            $this->matcher->getContext()->fromRequest($request);

            try {
                $request->attributes->add($this->matcher->match($request->getPathInfo()));

                $controller = $this->controllerResolver->getController($request);
                $arguments = $this->argumentResolver->getArguments($request, $controller);

                $response = call_user_func_array($controller, $arguments);
            } catch (ResourceNotFoundException $exception) {
                $response = new Response('Not Found', 404);
            } catch (\Exception $exception) {
                $response = new Response('An error occurred', 500);
            }

            // dispatch a response event
            $this->dispatcher->dispatch(new ResponseEvent($response, $request), 'response');

            return $response;
        }
    }

Each time the framework handles a Request, a ``ResponseEvent`` event is
now dispatched::

    // example.com/src/Simplex/ResponseEvent.php
    namespace Simplex;

    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
    use Symfony\Contracts\EventDispatcher\Event;

    class ResponseEvent extends Event
    {
        private $request;
        private $response;

        public function __construct(Response $response, Request $request)
        {
            $this->response = $response;
            $this->request = $request;
        }

        public function getResponse()
        {
            return $this->response;
        }

        public function getRequest()
        {
            return $this->request;
        }
    }

The last step is the creation of the dispatcher in the front controller and
the registration of a listener for the ``response`` event::

    // example.com/web/front.php
    require_once __DIR__.'/../vendor/autoload.php';

    // ...

    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventDispatcher;

    $dispatcher = new EventDispatcher();
    $dispatcher->addListener('response', function (Simplex\ResponseEvent $event) {
        $response = $event->getResponse();

        if ($response->isRedirection()
            || ($response->headers->has('Content-Type') && false === strpos($response->headers->get('Content-Type'), 'html'))
            || 'html' !== $event->getRequest()->getRequestFormat()
        ) {
            return;
        }

        $response->setContent($response->getContent().'GA CODE');
    });

    $controllerResolver = new ControllerResolver();
    $argumentResolver = new ArgumentResolver();

    $framework = new Simplex\Framework($dispatcher, $matcher, $controllerResolver, $argumentResolver);
    $response = $framework->handle($request);

    $response->send();

.. note::

    The listener is just a proof of concept and you should add the Google
    Analytics code just before the body tag.

As you can see, ``addListener()`` associates a valid PHP callback to a named
event (``response``); the event name must be the same as the one used in the
``dispatch()`` call.

In the listener, we add the Google Analytics code only if the response is not
a redirection, if the requested format is HTML and if the response content
type is HTML (these conditions demonstrate the ease of manipulating the
Request and Response data from your code).

So far so good, but let's add another listener on the same event. Let's say
that we want to set the ``Content-Length`` of the Response if it is not already
set::

    $dispatcher->addListener('response', function (Simplex\ResponseEvent $event) {
        $response = $event->getResponse();
        $headers = $response->headers;

        if (!$headers->has('Content-Length') && !$headers->has('Transfer-Encoding')) {
            $headers->set('Content-Length', strlen($response->getContent()));
        }
    });

Depending on whether you have added this piece of code before the previous
listener registration or after it, you will have the wrong or the right value
for the ``Content-Length`` header. Sometimes, the order of the listeners
matter but by default, all listeners are registered with the same priority,
``0``. To tell the dispatcher to run a listener early, change the priority to
a positive number; negative numbers can be used for low priority listeners.
Here, we want the ``Content-Length`` listener to be executed last, so change
the priority to ``-255``::

    $dispatcher->addListener('response', function (Simplex\ResponseEvent $event) {
        $response = $event->getResponse();
        $headers = $response->headers;

        if (!$headers->has('Content-Length') && !$headers->has('Transfer-Encoding')) {
            $headers->set('Content-Length', strlen($response->getContent()));
        }
    }, -255);

.. tip::

    When creating your framework, think about priorities (reserve some numbers
    for internal listeners for instance) and document them thoroughly.

Let's refactor the code a bit by moving the Google listener to its own class::

    // example.com/src/Simplex/GoogleListener.php
    namespace Simplex;

    class GoogleListener
    {
        public function onResponse(ResponseEvent $event)
        {
            $response = $event->getResponse();

            if ($response->isRedirection()
                || ($response->headers->has('Content-Type') && false === strpos($response->headers->get('Content-Type'), 'html'))
                || 'html' !== $event->getRequest()->getRequestFormat()
            ) {
                return;
            }

            $response->setContent($response->getContent().'GA CODE');
        }
    }

And do the same with the other listener::

    // example.com/src/Simplex/ContentLengthListener.php
    namespace Simplex;

    class ContentLengthListener
    {
        public function onResponse(ResponseEvent $event)
        {
            $response = $event->getResponse();
            $headers = $response->headers;

            if (!$headers->has('Content-Length') && !$headers->has('Transfer-Encoding')) {
                $headers->set('Content-Length', strlen($response->getContent()));
            }
        }
    }

Our front controller should now look like the following::

    $dispatcher = new EventDispatcher();
    $dispatcher->addListener('response', [new Simplex\ContentLengthListener(), 'onResponse'], -255);
    $dispatcher->addListener('response', [new Simplex\GoogleListener(), 'onResponse']);

Even if the code is now nicely wrapped in classes, there is still a slight
issue: the knowledge of the priorities is "hardcoded" in the front controller,
instead of being in the listeners themselves. For each application, you have
to remember to set the appropriate priorities. Moreover, the listener method
names are also exposed here, which means that refactoring our listeners would
mean changing all the applications that rely on those listeners. The solution
to this dilemma is to use subscribers instead of listeners::

    $dispatcher = new EventDispatcher();
    $dispatcher->addSubscriber(new Simplex\ContentLengthListener());
    $dispatcher->addSubscriber(new Simplex\GoogleListener());

A subscriber knows about all the events it is interested in and pass this
information to the dispatcher via the ``getSubscribedEvents()`` method. Have a
look at the new version of the ``GoogleListener``::

    // example.com/src/Simplex/GoogleListener.php
    namespace Simplex;

    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

    class GoogleListener implements EventSubscriberInterface
    {
        // ...

        public static function getSubscribedEvents()
        {
            return ['response' => 'onResponse'];
        }
    }

And here is the new version of ``ContentLengthListener``::

    // example.com/src/Simplex/ContentLengthListener.php
    namespace Simplex;

    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

    class ContentLengthListener implements EventSubscriberInterface
    {
        // ...

        public static function getSubscribedEvents()
        {
            return ['response' => ['onResponse', -255]];
        }
    }

.. tip::

    A single subscriber can host as many listeners as you want on as many
    events as needed.

To make your framework truly flexible, don't hesitate to add more events; and
to make it more awesome out of the box, add more listeners. Again, this book
is not about creating a generic framework, but one that is tailored to your
needs. Stop whenever you see fit, and further evolve the code from there.

.. _`WSGI`: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0333/#middleware-components-that-play-both-sides
.. _`Rack`: https://github.com/rack/rack
