The Routing Component
=====================

Before we start diving into the Routing component, let's refactor our current
framework just a little to make templates even more readable::

    // example.com/web/front.php
    require_once __DIR__.'/../vendor/autoload.php';

    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;

    $request = Request::createFromGlobals();

    $map = [
        '/hello' => 'hello',
        '/bye'   => 'bye',
    ];

    $path = $request->getPathInfo();
    if (isset($map[$path])) {
        ob_start();
        extract($request->query->all(), EXTR_SKIP);
        include sprintf(__DIR__.'/../src/pages/%s.php', $map[$path]);
        $response = new Response(ob_get_clean());
    } else {
        $response = new Response('Not Found', 404);
    }

    $response->send();

As we now extract the request query parameters, simplify the ``hello.php``
template as follows:

.. code-block:: html+php

    <!-- example.com/src/pages/hello.php -->
    Hello <?= htmlspecialchars(isset($name) ? $name : 'World', ENT_QUOTES, 'UTF-8') ?>

Now, we are in good shape to add new features.

One very important aspect of any website is the form of its URLs. Thanks to
the URL map, we have decoupled the URL from the code that generates the
associated response, but it is not yet flexible enough. For instance, we might
want to support dynamic paths to allow embedding data directly into the URL
(e.g. ``/hello/Fabien``) instead of relying on a query string (e.g. ``/hello?name=Fabien``).

To support this feature, add the Symfony Routing component as a dependency:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require symfony/routing

Instead of an array for the URL map, the Routing component relies on a
``RouteCollection`` instance::

    use Symfony\Component\Routing\RouteCollection;

    $routes = new RouteCollection();

Let's add a route that describes the ``/hello/SOMETHING`` URL and add another
one for the simple ``/bye`` one::

    use Symfony\Component\Routing\Route;

    $routes->add('hello', new Route('/hello/{name}', ['name' => 'World']));
    $routes->add('bye', new Route('/bye'));

Each entry in the collection is defined by a name (``hello``) and a ``Route``
instance, which is defined by a route pattern (``/hello/{name}``) and an array
of default values for route attributes (``['name' => 'World']``).

.. note::

    Read the :doc:`Routing documentation </routing>` to learn more about
    its many features like URL generation, attribute requirements, HTTP
    method enforcement, loaders for YAML or XML files, dumpers to PHP or
    Apache rewrite rules for enhanced performance and much more.

Based on the information stored in the ``RouteCollection`` instance, a
``UrlMatcher`` instance can match URL paths::

    use Symfony\Component\Routing\Matcher\UrlMatcher;
    use Symfony\Component\Routing\RequestContext;

    $context = new RequestContext();
    $context->fromRequest($request);
    $matcher = new UrlMatcher($routes, $context);

    $attributes = $matcher->match($request->getPathInfo());

The ``match()`` method takes a request path and returns an array of attributes
(notice that the matched route is automatically stored under the special
``_route`` attribute)::

    $matcher->match('/bye');
    /* Result:
    [
        '_route' => 'bye',
    ];
    */

    $matcher->match('/hello/Fabien');
    /* Result:
    [
        'name' => 'Fabien',
        '_route' => 'hello',
    ];
    */

    $matcher->match('/hello');
    /* Result:
    [
        'name' => 'World',
        '_route' => 'hello',
    ];
    */

.. note::

    Even if we don't strictly need the request context in our examples, it is
    used in real-world applications to enforce method requirements and more.

The URL matcher throws an exception when none of the routes match::

    $matcher->match('/not-found');

    // throws a Symfony\Component\Routing\Exception\ResourceNotFoundException

With this knowledge in mind, let's write the new version of our framework::

    // example.com/web/front.php
    require_once __DIR__.'/../vendor/autoload.php';

    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
    use Symfony\Component\Routing;

    $request = Request::createFromGlobals();
    $routes = include __DIR__.'/../src/app.php';

    $context = new Routing\RequestContext();
    $context->fromRequest($request);
    $matcher = new Routing\Matcher\UrlMatcher($routes, $context);

    try {
        extract($matcher->match($request->getPathInfo()), EXTR_SKIP);
        ob_start();
        include sprintf(__DIR__.'/../src/pages/%s.php', $_route);

        $response = new Response(ob_get_clean());
    } catch (Routing\Exception\ResourceNotFoundException $exception) {
        $response = new Response('Not Found', 404);
    } catch (Exception $exception) {
        $response = new Response('An error occurred', 500);
    }

    $response->send();

There are a few new things in the code:

* Route names are used for template names;

* ``500`` errors are now managed correctly;

* Request attributes are extracted to keep our templates simple:

.. code-block:: html+php

    // example.com/src/pages/hello.php
    Hello <?= htmlspecialchars($name, ENT_QUOTES, 'UTF-8') ?>

* Route configuration has been moved to its own file::

    // example.com/src/app.php
    use Symfony\Component\Routing;

    $routes = new Routing\RouteCollection();
    $routes->add('hello', new Routing\Route('/hello/{name}', ['name' => 'World']));
    $routes->add('bye', new Routing\Route('/bye'));

    return $routes;

We now have a clear separation between the configuration (everything
specific to our application in ``app.php``) and the framework (the generic
code that powers our application in ``front.php``).

With less than 30 lines of code, we have a new framework, more powerful and
more flexible than the previous one. Enjoy!

Using the Routing component has one big additional benefit: the ability to
generate URLs based on Route definitions. When using both URL matching and URL
generation in your code, changing the URL patterns should have no other
impact. You can use the generator this way::

    use Symfony\Component\Routing;

    $generator = new Routing\Generator\UrlGenerator($routes, $context);

    echo $generator->generate('hello', ['name' => 'Fabien']);
    // outputs /hello/Fabien

The code should be self-explanatory; and thanks to the context, you can even
generate absolute URLs::

    use Symfony\Component\Routing\Generator\UrlGeneratorInterface;

    echo $generator->generate(
        'hello',
        ['name' => 'Fabien'],
        UrlGeneratorInterface::ABSOLUTE_URL
    );
    // outputs something like http://example.com/somewhere/hello/Fabien

.. tip::

    Concerned about performance? Based on your route definitions, create a
    highly optimized URL matcher class that can replace the default
    ``UrlMatcher``::

        use Symfony\Component\Routing\Matcher\CompiledUrlMatcher;
        use Symfony\Component\Routing\Matcher\Dumper\CompiledUrlMatcherDumper;

        // $compiledRoutes is a plain PHP array that describes all routes in a performant data format
        // you can (and should) cache it, typically by exporting it to a PHP file
        $compiledRoutes = (new CompiledUrlMatcherDumper($routes))->getCompiledRoutes();

        $matcher = new CompiledUrlMatcher($compiledRoutes, $context);
