cookbook/controller/error_pages.rst, before:

How to customize Error Pages
============================

When any exception is thrown in Symfony2, the exception is caught inside the
``Kernel`` class and eventually forwarded to a special controller,
``FrameworkBundle:Exception:show`` for handling. This controller, which lives
inside the core ``FrameworkBundle``, determines which error template to
display and the status code that should be set for the given exception.

.. tip::

    The customization of exception handling is actually much more powerful
    than what's written here. An internal event, ``onCoreException``, is thrown
    which allows complete control over exception handling. For more information,
    see :ref:`kernel-onCoreException`.

All of the error templates live inside ``FrameworkBundle``. To override the
templates, we simply rely on the standard method for overriding templates that
live inside a bundle. For more information, see
:ref:`overiding-bundle-templates`.

For example, to override the default error template that's shown to the
end-user, create a new template located at
``app/Resources/FrameworkBundle/views/Exception/error.html.twig``:

.. code-block:: html+jinja

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
            <title>An Error Occurred: {{ status_text }}</title>
        </head>
        <body>
            <h1>Oops! An Error Occurred</h1>
            <h2>The server returned a "{{ exception.statuscode }} {{ exception.statustext }}".</h2>
        </body>
    </html>

.. tip::

    If you're not familiar with Twig, don't worry. Twig is a simple, powerful
    and optional templating engine that integrates with ``Symfony2``.

In addition to the standard HTML error page, Symfony provides a default error
page for many of the most common response formats, including JSON
(``error.json.twig``), XML, (``error.xml.twig``), and even Javascript
(``error.js.twig``), to name a few. To override any of these templates, just
create a new file with the same name in the
``app/Resources/FrameworkBundle/views/Exception`` directory. This is the
standard way of overriding any template that lives inside a bundle.

The debug-friendly exception pages shown to the developer can even be
customized in the same way by creating templates such as
``exception.html.twig`` for the standard HTML exception page or
``exception.json.twig`` for the JSON exception page.

.. tip::

    To see the full list of default error templates, see the
    ``Resources/views/Exception`` directory of the ``FrameworkBundle``. In a
    standard Symfony2 installation, the ``FrameworkBundle`` can be found at
    ``vendor/symfony/src/Symfony/Bundle/FrameworkBundle``. Often, the easiest
    way to customize an error page is to copy it from the ``FrameworkBundle``
    into ``app/Resources/FrameworkBundle/views/Exception`` and then modify it.

Commit message:

added information about how to customize error pages according to the HTTP status code

cookbook/controller/error_pages.rst, after:

How to customize Error Pages
============================

When any exception is thrown in Symfony2, the exception is caught inside the
``Kernel`` class and eventually forwarded to a special controller,
``FrameworkBundle:Exception:show`` for handling. This controller, which lives
inside the core ``FrameworkBundle``, determines which error template to
display and the status code that should be set for the given exception.

.. tip::

    The customization of exception handling is actually much more powerful
    than what's written here. An internal event, ``onCoreException``, is thrown
    which allows complete control over exception handling. For more information,
    see :ref:`kernel-onCoreException`.

All of the error templates live inside ``FrameworkBundle``. To override the
templates, we simply rely on the standard method for overriding templates that
live inside a bundle. For more information, see
:ref:`overiding-bundle-templates`.

For example, to override the default error template that's shown to the
end-user, create a new template located at
``app/Resources/FrameworkBundle/views/Exception/error.html.twig``:

.. code-block:: html+jinja

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
            <title>An Error Occurred: {{ status_text }}</title>
        </head>
        <body>
            <h1>Oops! An Error Occurred</h1>
            <h2>The server returned a "{{ exception.statuscode }} {{ exception.statustext }}".</h2>
        </body>
    </html>

.. tip::

    If you're not familiar with Twig, don't worry. Twig is a simple, powerful
    and optional templating engine that integrates with ``Symfony2``.

In addition to the standard HTML error page, Symfony provides a default error
page for many of the most common response formats, including JSON
(``error.json.twig``), XML, (``error.xml.twig``), and even Javascript
(``error.js.twig``), to name a few. To override any of these templates, just
create a new file with the same name in the
``app/Resources/FrameworkBundle/views/Exception`` directory. This is the
standard way of overriding any template that lives inside a bundle.

You can also provide specific templates according to the HTTP status code. For
instance, create a
``app/Resources/FrameworkBundle/views/Exception/error404.html.twig`` template
to display a special page for 404 (page not found) errors.

Symfony uses the following algorithm to determine which template to use:

* First, it looks for a template for the given format and status code (like
  ``error404.json.twig``);

* If it does not exist, it looks for a template for the given format (like
  ``error.json.twig``);

* If it does not exist, it falls back to the HTML template (like
  ``error.html.twig``).

.. tip::

    To see the full list of default error templates, see the
    ``Resources/views/Exception`` directory of the ``FrameworkBundle``. In a
    standard Symfony2 installation, the ``FrameworkBundle`` can be found at
    ``vendor/symfony/src/Symfony/Bundle/FrameworkBundle``. Often, the easiest
    way to customize an error page is to copy it from the ``FrameworkBundle``
    into ``app/Resources/FrameworkBundle/views/Exception`` and then modify it.

.. note::

    The debug-friendly exception pages shown to the developer can even be
    customized in the same way by creating templates such as
    ``exception.html.twig`` for the standard HTML exception page or
    ``exception.json.twig`` for the JSON exception page.
