reference/forms/types/country.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; country

``country`` Field Type
======================

A subset of the ``ChoiceType`` that displays countries of the world. Most
options and usage of the ``ChoiceType`` apply to this type as well.

The "value" for each country is the two-letter country code.

Unlike the ``choice`` type, you don't need to specify a ``choices`` or
``choice_list`` option as the field type automatically uses all of the countries
of the world. You *can* specify either of these options manually, but then
you should just use the ``choice`` type directly.

============  ======
Rendered as   can be various tags (see :ref:`forms-reference-choice-tags`)
Options       ``multiple``, ``expanded``, ``preferred_choices``, ``required``, ``label``, ``read_only``, ``error_bubbling``
Parent type   :doc:`choice</reference/forms/types/choice>`
Class         :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Type\\CountryType`
============  ======

Options
-------

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/multiple.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/expanded.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/preferred_choices.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/required.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/label.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/read_only.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/error_bubbling.rst.inc

Commit message:

[reference][forms] Added the locale field type

reference/forms/types/country.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; country

``country`` Field Type
======================

The ``country`` type is a subset of the ``ChoiceType`` that displays countries
of the world. As an added bonus, the country names are displayed in the language
of the user.

The "value" for each country is the two-letter country code.

.. note::

   The locale of your user is guessed using `Locale::getDefault()`_

Unlike the ``choice`` type, you don't need to specify a ``choices`` or
``choice_list`` option as the field type automatically uses all of the countries
of the world. You *can* specify either of these options manually, but then
you should just use the ``choice`` type directly.

============  ======
Rendered as   can be various tags (see :ref:`forms-reference-choice-tags`)
Options       ``multiple``, ``expanded``, ``preferred_choices``, ``required``, ``label``, ``read_only``, ``error_bubbling``
Parent type   :doc:`choice</reference/forms/types/choice>`
Class         :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Type\\CountryType`
============  ======

Options
-------

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/multiple.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/expanded.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/preferred_choices.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/required.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/label.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/read_only.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/error_bubbling.rst.inc

.. _`Locale::getDefault()`: http://php.net/manual/en/locale.getdefault.php
