reference/forms/types/date.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; date

date Field Type
===============

A field that allows the user to modify date information via a variety of
different HTML elements.

The underlying data used for this field type can be a ``DateTime`` object,
a string, a timestamp or an array. As long as the `input`_ option is set
correctly, the field will take care of all of the details.

The field can be rendered as a single text box, three text boxes (month,
day, and year) or three select boxes (see the `widget_` option).

+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Underlying Data Type | can be ``DateTime``, string, timestamp, or array (see the ``input`` option) |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Rendered as          | single text box or three select fields                                      |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options              | - `widget`_                                                                 |
|                      | - `input`_                                                                  |
|                      | - `years`_                                                                  |
|                      | - `months`_                                                                 |
|                      | - `days`_                                                                   |
|                      | - `format`_                                                                 |
|                      | - `pattern`_                                                                |
|                      | - `data_timezone`_                                                          |
|                      | - `user_timezone`_                                                          |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parent type          | ``field`` (if text), ``form`` otherwise                                     |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Class                | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Extension\\Core\\Type\\DateType`          |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Basic Usage
-----------

This field type is highly configurable, but easy to use. The most important
options are ``input`` and ``widget``.

Suppose that you have a ``publishedAt`` field whose underlying date is a
``DateTime`` object. The following configures the ``date`` type for that
field as three different choice fields:

.. code-block:: php

    $builder->add('publishedAt', 'date', array(
        'input'  => 'datetime',
        'widget' => 'choice',
    ));

The ``input`` option *must* be changed to match the type of the underlying
date data. For example, if the ``publishedAt`` field's data were a unix timestamp,
you'd need to set ``input`` to ``timestamp``:

.. code-block:: php

    $builder->add('publishedAt', 'date', array(
        'input'  => 'timestamp',
        'widget' => 'choice',
    ));

The field also supports an ``array`` and ``string`` as valid ``input`` option
values.

Field Options
-------------

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/date_widget.rst.inc

.. _form-reference-date-input:

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/date_input.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/years.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/months.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/days.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/date_format.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/date_pattern.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/data_timezone.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/user_timezone.rst.inc

Commit message:

[reference][forms] Quickly adding missing empty_value date option

reference/forms/types/date.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; date

date Field Type
===============

A field that allows the user to modify date information via a variety of
different HTML elements.

The underlying data used for this field type can be a ``DateTime`` object,
a string, a timestamp or an array. As long as the `input`_ option is set
correctly, the field will take care of all of the details.

The field can be rendered as a single text box, three text boxes (month,
day, and year) or three select boxes (see the `widget_` option).

+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Underlying Data Type | can be ``DateTime``, string, timestamp, or array (see the ``input`` option) |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Rendered as          | single text box or three select fields                                      |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options              | - `widget`_                                                                 |
|                      | - `input`_                                                                  |
|                      | - `empty_value`_                                                            |
|                      | - `years`_                                                                  |
|                      | - `months`_                                                                 |
|                      | - `days`_                                                                   |
|                      | - `format`_                                                                 |
|                      | - `pattern`_                                                                |
|                      | - `data_timezone`_                                                          |
|                      | - `user_timezone`_                                                          |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parent type          | ``field`` (if text), ``form`` otherwise                                     |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Class                | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Extension\\Core\\Type\\DateType`          |
+----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Basic Usage
-----------

This field type is highly configurable, but easy to use. The most important
options are ``input`` and ``widget``.

Suppose that you have a ``publishedAt`` field whose underlying date is a
``DateTime`` object. The following configures the ``date`` type for that
field as three different choice fields:

.. code-block:: php

    $builder->add('publishedAt', 'date', array(
        'input'  => 'datetime',
        'widget' => 'choice',
    ));

The ``input`` option *must* be changed to match the type of the underlying
date data. For example, if the ``publishedAt`` field's data were a unix timestamp,
you'd need to set ``input`` to ``timestamp``:

.. code-block:: php

    $builder->add('publishedAt', 'date', array(
        'input'  => 'timestamp',
        'widget' => 'choice',
    ));

The field also supports an ``array`` and ``string`` as valid ``input`` option
values.

Field Options
-------------

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/date_widget.rst.inc

.. _form-reference-date-input:

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/date_input.rst.inc

empty_value
~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string``|``array``

If your widget option is set to ``choice``, then this field will be represented
as a series of ``select`` boxes. The ``empty_value`` option can be used to
add a "blank" entry to the top of each select box::

    $builder->add('dueDate', 'date', array(
        'empty_value' => '',
    ));

Alternatively, you can specify a string to be displayed for the "blank" value::

    $builder->add('dueDate', 'date', array(
        'empty_value' => array('year' => 'Year', 'month' => 'Month', 'day' => 'Day')
    ));

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/years.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/months.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/days.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/date_format.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/date_pattern.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/data_timezone.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/user_timezone.rst.inc
