reference/forms/types/datetime.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; datetime

``datetime`` Field Type
=======================

A field to capture date and time input.
Can be rendered as text inputs or selects.

============  ======
Rendered as   can be various tags (see below)
Options       ``years`` ``months`` ``days`` ``hours`` ``minutes`` ``seconds``, ``date_widget``, ``date_format`` ``time_widget`` ``with_seconds`` ``data_timezone`` ``user_timezone``
Parent type   can be various tags (see below)
Class         :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Extension\\Core\\Type\\DatetimeType`
============  ======

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/years.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/months.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/days.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/hours.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/minutes.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/seconds.rst.inc

* ``date_widget`` [type: string, default: choice]
    Defines the ``widget`` option for field :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Type\\DateType`

* ``time_widget`` [type: string, default: choice]
    Defines the ``widget`` option for field :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Type\\TimeType`

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/with_seconds.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/data_timezone.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/user_timezone.rst.inc

Commit message:

[reference][forms] Finishing a proofread of some of the date/time type references
This is a WIP - it's closer, but not there yet and not totally accurate. This will be corrected shortly.

reference/forms/types/datetime.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; datetime

``datetime`` Field Type
=======================

This field type allows the user to modify data that represents a specific
date and time (e.g. ``1984-06-05 12:15:30``).

Can be rendered as a text input or select tags. The underlying format of the
data can be a ``DateTime`` object, a string, a timestamp or an array.

====================  ======
Underlying Data Type  can be ``DateTime``, string, timestamp, or array (see the ``input`` option)
Rendered as           single text box or three select fields
Options               ``date_widget``, ``time_widget``, ``input``, ``years``, ``months``, ``days``, ``format``, ``pattern``, ``data_timezone``, ``user_timezone``
Parent type           form
Class                 :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Extension\\Core\\Type\\DatetimeType`
====================  ======

* ``date_widget`` [type: string, default: choice]
    Defines the ``widget`` option for the :doc:`date</reference/forms/types/date>` type

* ``time_widget`` [type: string, default: choice]
    Defines the ``widget`` option for the :doc:`time</reference/forms/types/time>` type

* ``input`` [type: string, default: ``datetime``]
    The value of the input for the widget.  Can be ``string``, ``datetime``
    or ``array``.  The form type input value will be returned in the format
    specified.  The input of ``April 21th, 2011 18:15:30`` as an array would return:

    .. code-block:: php

        array('month' => 4, 'day' => 21, 'year' => 2011, 'hour' => 18, 'minute' => 15, 'second' => 30)

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/years.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/months.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/days.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/hours.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/minutes.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/seconds.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/with_seconds.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/data_timezone.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/user_timezone.rst.inc
