reference/forms/types/integer.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; integer

integer Field Type
==================

Renders an input "number" field. Basically, this is a text field that's good
at handling data that's in an integer form. The input ``number`` field looks
like a text box, except that - if the user's browser supports HTML5 - it will
have some extra frontend functionality.

This field has different options on how to handle input values that aren't
integers. By default, all non-integer values (e.g. 6.78) will round down (e.g. 6).

+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Rendered as | ``input`` ``text`` field                                              |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options     | - ``rounding_mode``                                                   |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Inherited   | - ``required``                                                        |
| options     | - ``label``                                                           |
|             | - ``read_only``                                                       |
|             | - ``error_bubbling``                                                  |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parent type | ``field``                                                             |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Class       | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Extension\\Core\\Type\\IntegerType` |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Options
-------

* ``rounding_mode`` [type: integer, default: ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_DOWN``]
    By default, if the user enters a non-integer number, it will be rounded
    down. There are several other rounding methods, and each is a constant
    on the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\DataTransformer\\IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer`:
    
    * ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_DOWN``
        Rounding mode to round towards zero.
    * ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_FLOOR``
        Rounding mode to round towards negative infinity.
    * ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_UP``
        Rounding mode to round away from zero.
    * ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_CEILING``
        Rounding mode to round towards positive infinity.

Inherited options
-----------------

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/inherit_expl.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/required.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/label.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/read_only.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/error_bubbling.rst.inc

Commit message:

[reference][forms] Making many small tweaks to the form reference

reference/forms/types/integer.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; integer

integer Field Type
==================

Renders an input "number" field. Basically, this is a text field that's good
at handling data that's in an integer form. The input ``number`` field looks
like a text box, except that - if the user's browser supports HTML5 - it will
have some extra frontend functionality.

This field has different options on how to handle input values that aren't
integers. By default, all non-integer values (e.g. 6.78) will round down (e.g. 6).

+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Rendered as | ``input`` ``text`` field                                              |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options     | - ``rounding_mode``                                                   |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Inherited   | - ``required``                                                        |
| options     | - ``label``                                                           |
|             | - ``read_only``                                                       |
|             | - ``error_bubbling``                                                  |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parent type | ``field``                                                             |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Class       | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Extension\\Core\\Type\\IntegerType` |
+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Options
-------

* ``rounding_mode`` [type: integer, default: ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_DOWN``]
    By default, if the user enters a non-integer number, it will be rounded
    down. There are several other rounding methods, and each is a constant
    on the :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\DataTransformer\\IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer`:
    
    * ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_DOWN``
        Rounding mode to round towards zero.
    * ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_FLOOR``
        Rounding mode to round towards negative infinity.
    * ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_UP``
        Rounding mode to round away from zero.
    * ``IntegerToLocalizedStringTransformer::ROUND_CEILING``
        Rounding mode to round towards positive infinity.

Inherited options
-----------------

These options inherit from the :doc:`field</reference/forms/types/field>` type:

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/required.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/label.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/read_only.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/error_bubbling.rst.inc
