reference/forms/types/search.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; search

search Field Type
=================

The ``search`` field is a text field that is used for the entry of searches,
and is rendered by default using a ``search`` input type which can be used
by user agents to present a specialized rendering for search boxes (such
as the `one used in WebKit-based browsers`_).

+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Rendered as | ``input search`` field                                               |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Inherited   | - ``max_length``                                                     |
| options     | - ``required``                                                       |
|             | - ``label``                                                          |
|             | - ``read_only``                                                      |
|             | - ``trim``                                                           |
|             | - ``error_bubbling``                                                 |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parent type | :doc:`text</reference/forms/types/text>`                             |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Class       | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Extension\\Core\\Type\\SearchType` |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Options
-------

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/max_length.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/required.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/label.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/read_only.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/trim.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/error_bubbling.rst.inc

.. _`one used in WebKit-based browsers`: http://alexking.org/blog/2006/11/12/safari-search-boxes

Commit message:

[reference][form] Large update to the formatting of the field references so that things are more usable and readable

reference/forms/types/search.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Forms; Fields; search

search Field Type
=================

This renders an ``<input type="search" />`` field, which is a text box with
special functionality supported by some browsers.

Read about the input search field at `DiveIntoHTML5.org`_

+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Rendered as | ``input search`` field                                               |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Inherited   | - `max_length`_                                                      |
| options     | - `required`_                                                        |
|             | - `label`_                                                           |
|             | - `trim`_                                                            |
|             | - `read_only`_                                                       |
|             | - `error_bubbling`_                                                  |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parent type | :doc:`text</reference/forms/types/text>`                             |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Class       | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Form\\Extension\\Core\\Type\\SearchType` |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Inherited Options
-----------------

These options inherit from the :doc:`field</reference/forms/types/field>` type:

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/max_length.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/required.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/label.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/trim.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/read_only.rst.inc

.. include:: /reference/forms/types/options/error_bubbling.rst.inc

.. _`DiveIntoHTML5.org`: http://diveintohtml5.org/forms.html#type-search
