components/console/helpers/progressbar.rst, before:

Progress Bar
============

When executing longer-running commands, it may be helpful to show progress
information, which updates as your command runs:

.. image:: /_images/components/console/progressbar.gif
    :alt: Console output showing a progress bar advance to 100%, with the esimated time left, the memory usage and a special message that changes when the bar closes completion.

.. note::

    As an alternative, consider using the
    :ref:`SymfonyStyle <symfony-style-progressbar>` to display a progress bar.

To display progress details, use the
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar`, pass it a total
number of units, and advance the progress as the command executes::

    use Symfony\Component\Console\Helper\ProgressBar;

    // creates a new progress bar (50 units)
    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 50);

    // starts and displays the progress bar
    $progressBar->start();

    $i = 0;
    while ($i++ < 50) {
        // ... do some work

        // advances the progress bar 1 unit
        $progressBar->advance();

        // you can also advance the progress bar by more than 1 unit
        // $progressBar->advance(3);
    }

    // ensures that the progress bar is at 100%
    $progressBar->finish();

.. tip::

    You can also regress the progress bar (i.e. step backwards) by calling
    ``$progress->advance()`` with a negative value. For example, if you call
    ``$progress->advance(-2)`` then it will regress the progress bar 2 steps.

Instead of advancing the bar by a number of steps (with the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::advance` method),
you can also set the current progress by calling the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::setProgress` method.

.. tip::

    If your platform doesn't support ANSI codes, updates to the progress
    bar are added as new lines. To prevent the output from being flooded,
    use the :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::minSecondsBetweenRedraws`
    method to limit the number of redraws and the
    :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::setRedrawFrequency` method
    to redraw every N iterations. By default, redraw frequency is
    **100ms** or **10%** of your ``max``.

If you don't know the exact number of steps in advance, set it to a reasonable
value and then call the ``setMaxSteps()`` method to update it as needed::

    // start with a 50 units progressbar
    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 50);

    // a complex task has just been created: increase the progressbar to 200 units
    $progressBar->setMaxSteps(200);

Another solution is to omit the steps argument when creating the
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar` instance::

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output);

The progress will then be displayed as a throbber:

.. code-block:: text

    # no max steps (displays it like a throbber)
        0 [>---------------------------]
        5 [----->----------------------]
        5 [============================]

    # max steps defined
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%
     3/3 [============================] 100%

.. tip::

    An alternative to this is to use a
    :doc:`/components/console/helpers/progressindicator` instead of a
    progress bar.

Whenever your task is finished, don't forget to call
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::finish` to ensure
that the progress bar display is refreshed with a 100% completion.

.. note::

    If you want to output something while the progress bar is running,
    call :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::clear` first.
    After you're done, call
    :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::display`
    to show the progress bar again.

If the progress information is stored in an iterable variable (such as an array
or a PHP generator) you can use the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::iterate` method,
which starts, advances and finishes the progress bar automatically::

    use Symfony\Component\Console\Helper\ProgressBar;

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output);

    // $iterable can be array
    $iterable = [1, 2];
    foreach ($progressBar->iterate($iterable) as $value) {
        // ... do some work
    }

    // or a generator
    function iterable() { yield 1; yield 2; ... };
    foreach ($progressBar->iterate(iterable()) as $value) {
        // ... do some work
    }

The previous code will output:

.. code-block:: text

     0/2 [>---------------------------]   0%
     1/2 [==============>-------------]  50%
     2/2 [============================] 100%

Customizing the Progress Bar
----------------------------

Built-in Formats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, the information rendered on a progress bar depends on the current
level of verbosity of the ``OutputInterface`` instance:

.. code-block:: text

    # OutputInterface::VERBOSITY_NORMAL (CLI with no verbosity flag)
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%
     3/3 [============================] 100%

    # OutputInterface::VERBOSITY_VERBOSE (-v)
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%  1 sec
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%  1 sec
     3/3 [============================] 100%  1 sec

    # OutputInterface::VERBOSITY_VERY_VERBOSE (-vv)
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%  1 sec/1 sec
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%  1 sec/1 sec
     3/3 [============================] 100%  1 sec/1 sec

    # OutputInterface::VERBOSITY_DEBUG (-vvv)
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%  1 sec/1 sec  1.0 MB
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%  1 sec/1 sec  1.0 MB
     3/3 [============================] 100%  1 sec/1 sec  1.0 MB

.. note::

    If you call a command with the quiet flag (``-q``), the progress bar won't
    be displayed.

Instead of relying on the verbosity mode of the current command, you can also
force a format via ``setFormat()``::

    $progressBar->setFormat('verbose');

The built-in formats are the following:

* ``normal``
* ``verbose``
* ``very_verbose``
* ``debug``

If you don't set the number of steps for your progress bar, use the ``_nomax``
variants:

* ``normal_nomax``
* ``verbose_nomax``
* ``very_verbose_nomax``
* ``debug_nomax``

Custom Formats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Instead of using the built-in formats, you can also set your own::

    $progressBar->setFormat('%bar%');

This sets the format to only display the progress bar itself:

.. code-block:: text

    >---------------------------
    =========>------------------
    ============================

A progress bar format is a string that contains specific placeholders (a name
enclosed with the ``%`` character); the placeholders are replaced based on the
current progress of the bar. Here is a list of the built-in placeholders:

* ``current``: The current step;
* ``max``: The maximum number of steps (or 0 if no max is defined);
* ``bar``: The bar itself;
* ``percent``: The percentage of completion (not available if no max is defined);
* ``elapsed``: The time elapsed since the start of the progress bar;
* ``remaining``: The remaining time to complete the task (not available if no max is defined);
* ``estimated``: The estimated time to complete the task (not available if no max is defined);
* ``memory``: The current memory usage;
* ``message``: used to display arbitrary messages in the progress bar (as explained later).

For instance, here is how you could set the format to be the same as the
``debug`` one::

    $progressBar->setFormat(' %current%/%max% [%bar%] %percent:3s%% %elapsed:6s%/%estimated:-6s% %memory:6s%');

Notice the ``:6s`` part added to some placeholders? That's how you can tweak
the appearance of the bar (formatting and alignment). The part after the colon
(``:``) is used to set the ``sprintf`` format of the string.

Instead of setting the format for a given instance of a progress bar, you can
also define global formats::

    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('minimal', 'Progress: %percent%%');

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 3);
    $progressBar->setFormat('minimal');

This code defines a new ``minimal`` format that you can then use for your
progress bars:

.. code-block:: text

    Progress: 0%
    Progress: 33%
    Progress: 100%

.. tip::

    It is almost always better to redefine built-in formats instead of creating
    new ones as that allows the display to automatically vary based on the
    verbosity flag of the command.

When defining a new style that contains placeholders that are only available
when the maximum number of steps is known, you should create a ``_nomax``
variant::

    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('minimal', '%percent%% %remaining%');
    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('minimal_nomax', '%percent%%');

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output);
    $progressBar->setFormat('minimal');

When displaying the progress bar, the format will automatically be set to
``minimal_nomax`` if the bar does not have a maximum number of steps like in
the example above.

.. tip::

    A format can contain any valid ANSI codes and can also use the
    Symfony-specific way to set colors::

        ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition(
            'minimal',
            '<info>%percent%</info>\033[32m%\033[0m <fg=white;bg=blue>%remaining%</>'
        );

.. note::

    A format can span more than one line; that's very useful when you want to
    display more contextual information alongside the progress bar (see the
    example at the beginning of this article).

Bar Settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Among the placeholders, ``bar`` is a bit special as all the characters used
to display it can be customized::

    // the finished part of the bar
    $progressBar->setBarCharacter('<comment>=</comment>');

    // the unfinished part of the bar
    $progressBar->setEmptyBarCharacter(' ');

    // the progress character
    $progressBar->setProgressCharacter('|');

    // the bar width
    $progressBar->setBarWidth(50);

.. caution::

    For performance reasons, Symfony redraws the screen once every 100ms. If this is too
    fast or to slow for your application, use the methods
    :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::minSecondsBetweenRedraws` and
    :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::maxSecondsBetweenRedraws`::

        $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 50000);
        $progressBar->start();

        // this redraws the screen every 100 iterations, but sets additional limits:
        // don't redraw slower than 200ms (0.2) or faster than 100ms (0.1)
        $progressBar->setRedrawFrequency(100);
        $progressBar->maxSecondsBetweenRedraws(0.2);
        $progressBar->minSecondsBetweenRedraws(0.1);

        $i = 0;
        while ($i++ < 50000) {
            // ... do some work

            $progressBar->advance();
        }

Custom Placeholders
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to display some information that depends on the progress bar
display that are not available in the list of built-in placeholders, you can
create your own. Let's see how you can create a ``remaining_steps`` placeholder
that displays the number of remaining steps::

    ProgressBar::setPlaceholderFormatterDefinition(
        'remaining_steps',
        function (ProgressBar $progressBar, OutputInterface $output) {
            return $progressBar->getMaxSteps() - $progressBar->getProgress();
        }
    );

Custom Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Progress bars define a placeholder called ``message`` to display arbitrary
messages. However, none of the built-in formats include that placeholder, so
before displaying these messages, you must define your own custom format::

    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('custom', ' %current%/%max% -- %message%');

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 100);
    $progressBar->setFormat('custom');

Now, use the ``setMessage()`` method to set the value of the ``%message%``
placeholder before displaying the progress bar::

    // ...
    $progressBar->setMessage('Start');
    $progressBar->start();
    // 0/100 -- Start

    $progressBar->setMessage('Task is in progress...');
    $progressBar->advance();
    // 1/100 -- Task is in progress...

Messages can be combined with custom placeholders too. In this example, the
progress bar uses the ``%message%`` and ``%filename%`` placeholders::

    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('custom', ' %current%/%max% -- %message% (%filename%)');

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 100);
    $progressBar->setFormat('custom');

The ``setMessage()`` method accepts a second optional argument to set the value
of the custom placeholders::

    // ...
    // $files = ['client-001/invoices.xml', '...'];
    foreach ($files as $filename) {
        $progressBar->setMessage('Importing invoices...');
        $progressBar->setMessage($filename, 'filename');
        $progressBar->advance();
        // 2/100 -- Importing invoices... (client-001/invoices.xml)
    }

.. _console-multiple-progress-bars:

Displaying Multiple Progress Bars
---------------------------------

When using :ref:`Console output sections <console-output-sections>` it's
possible to display multiple progress bars at the same time and change their
progress independently::

    $section1 = $output->section();
    $section2 = $output->section();

    $progress1 = new ProgressBar($section1);
    $progress2 = new ProgressBar($section2);

    $progress1->start(100);
    $progress2->start(100);

    $i = 0;
    while (++$i < 100) {
        $progress1->advance();

        if ($i % 2 === 0) {
            $progress2->advance(4);
        }

        usleep(50000);
    }

After a couple of iterations, the output in the terminal will look like this:

.. code-block:: text

    34/100 [=========>------------------]  34%
    68/100 [===================>--------]  68%

Commit message:

[Command] Helpers uses `stderr` by default

components/console/helpers/progressbar.rst, after:

Progress Bar
============

When executing longer-running commands, it may be helpful to show progress
information, which updates as your command runs:

.. image:: /_images/components/console/progressbar.gif
    :alt: Console output showing a progress bar advance to 100%, with the esimated time left, the memory usage and a special message that changes when the bar closes completion.

.. note::

    As an alternative, consider using the
    :ref:`SymfonyStyle <symfony-style-progressbar>` to display a progress bar.

To display progress details, use the
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar`, pass it a total
number of units, and advance the progress as the command executes::

    use Symfony\Component\Console\Helper\ProgressBar;

    // creates a new progress bar (50 units)
    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 50);

    // starts and displays the progress bar
    $progressBar->start();

    $i = 0;
    while ($i++ < 50) {
        // ... do some work

        // advances the progress bar 1 unit
        $progressBar->advance();

        // you can also advance the progress bar by more than 1 unit
        // $progressBar->advance(3);
    }

    // ensures that the progress bar is at 100%
    $progressBar->finish();

.. tip::

    You can also regress the progress bar (i.e. step backwards) by calling
    ``$progress->advance()`` with a negative value. For example, if you call
    ``$progress->advance(-2)`` then it will regress the progress bar 2 steps.

.. note::

    By default, the progress bar helper uses the error output (``stderr``) as
    its default output. This behavior can be changed by passing an instance of
    :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Output\\StreamOutput` to the
    :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar`
    constructor.

Instead of advancing the bar by a number of steps (with the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::advance` method),
you can also set the current progress by calling the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::setProgress` method.

.. tip::

    If your platform doesn't support ANSI codes, updates to the progress
    bar are added as new lines. To prevent the output from being flooded,
    use the :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::minSecondsBetweenRedraws`
    method to limit the number of redraws and the
    :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::setRedrawFrequency` method
    to redraw every N iterations. By default, redraw frequency is
    **100ms** or **10%** of your ``max``.

If you don't know the exact number of steps in advance, set it to a reasonable
value and then call the ``setMaxSteps()`` method to update it as needed::

    // start with a 50 units progressbar
    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 50);

    // a complex task has just been created: increase the progressbar to 200 units
    $progressBar->setMaxSteps(200);

Another solution is to omit the steps argument when creating the
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar` instance::

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output);

The progress will then be displayed as a throbber:

.. code-block:: text

    # no max steps (displays it like a throbber)
        0 [>---------------------------]
        5 [----->----------------------]
        5 [============================]

    # max steps defined
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%
     3/3 [============================] 100%

.. tip::

    An alternative to this is to use a
    :doc:`/components/console/helpers/progressindicator` instead of a
    progress bar.

Whenever your task is finished, don't forget to call
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::finish` to ensure
that the progress bar display is refreshed with a 100% completion.

.. note::

    If you want to output something while the progress bar is running,
    call :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::clear` first.
    After you're done, call
    :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::display`
    to show the progress bar again.

If the progress information is stored in an iterable variable (such as an array
or a PHP generator) you can use the
:method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::iterate` method,
which starts, advances and finishes the progress bar automatically::

    use Symfony\Component\Console\Helper\ProgressBar;

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output);

    // $iterable can be array
    $iterable = [1, 2];
    foreach ($progressBar->iterate($iterable) as $value) {
        // ... do some work
    }

    // or a generator
    function iterable() { yield 1; yield 2; ... };
    foreach ($progressBar->iterate(iterable()) as $value) {
        // ... do some work
    }

The previous code will output:

.. code-block:: text

     0/2 [>---------------------------]   0%
     1/2 [==============>-------------]  50%
     2/2 [============================] 100%

Customizing the Progress Bar
----------------------------

Built-in Formats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, the information rendered on a progress bar depends on the current
level of verbosity of the ``OutputInterface`` instance:

.. code-block:: text

    # OutputInterface::VERBOSITY_NORMAL (CLI with no verbosity flag)
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%
     3/3 [============================] 100%

    # OutputInterface::VERBOSITY_VERBOSE (-v)
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%  1 sec
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%  1 sec
     3/3 [============================] 100%  1 sec

    # OutputInterface::VERBOSITY_VERY_VERBOSE (-vv)
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%  1 sec/1 sec
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%  1 sec/1 sec
     3/3 [============================] 100%  1 sec/1 sec

    # OutputInterface::VERBOSITY_DEBUG (-vvv)
     0/3 [>---------------------------]   0%  1 sec/1 sec  1.0 MB
     1/3 [=========>------------------]  33%  1 sec/1 sec  1.0 MB
     3/3 [============================] 100%  1 sec/1 sec  1.0 MB

.. note::

    If you call a command with the quiet flag (``-q``), the progress bar won't
    be displayed.

Instead of relying on the verbosity mode of the current command, you can also
force a format via ``setFormat()``::

    $progressBar->setFormat('verbose');

The built-in formats are the following:

* ``normal``
* ``verbose``
* ``very_verbose``
* ``debug``

If you don't set the number of steps for your progress bar, use the ``_nomax``
variants:

* ``normal_nomax``
* ``verbose_nomax``
* ``very_verbose_nomax``
* ``debug_nomax``

Custom Formats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Instead of using the built-in formats, you can also set your own::

    $progressBar->setFormat('%bar%');

This sets the format to only display the progress bar itself:

.. code-block:: text

    >---------------------------
    =========>------------------
    ============================

A progress bar format is a string that contains specific placeholders (a name
enclosed with the ``%`` character); the placeholders are replaced based on the
current progress of the bar. Here is a list of the built-in placeholders:

* ``current``: The current step;
* ``max``: The maximum number of steps (or 0 if no max is defined);
* ``bar``: The bar itself;
* ``percent``: The percentage of completion (not available if no max is defined);
* ``elapsed``: The time elapsed since the start of the progress bar;
* ``remaining``: The remaining time to complete the task (not available if no max is defined);
* ``estimated``: The estimated time to complete the task (not available if no max is defined);
* ``memory``: The current memory usage;
* ``message``: used to display arbitrary messages in the progress bar (as explained later).

For instance, here is how you could set the format to be the same as the
``debug`` one::

    $progressBar->setFormat(' %current%/%max% [%bar%] %percent:3s%% %elapsed:6s%/%estimated:-6s% %memory:6s%');

Notice the ``:6s`` part added to some placeholders? That's how you can tweak
the appearance of the bar (formatting and alignment). The part after the colon
(``:``) is used to set the ``sprintf`` format of the string.

Instead of setting the format for a given instance of a progress bar, you can
also define global formats::

    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('minimal', 'Progress: %percent%%');

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 3);
    $progressBar->setFormat('minimal');

This code defines a new ``minimal`` format that you can then use for your
progress bars:

.. code-block:: text

    Progress: 0%
    Progress: 33%
    Progress: 100%

.. tip::

    It is almost always better to redefine built-in formats instead of creating
    new ones as that allows the display to automatically vary based on the
    verbosity flag of the command.

When defining a new style that contains placeholders that are only available
when the maximum number of steps is known, you should create a ``_nomax``
variant::

    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('minimal', '%percent%% %remaining%');
    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('minimal_nomax', '%percent%%');

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output);
    $progressBar->setFormat('minimal');

When displaying the progress bar, the format will automatically be set to
``minimal_nomax`` if the bar does not have a maximum number of steps like in
the example above.

.. tip::

    A format can contain any valid ANSI codes and can also use the
    Symfony-specific way to set colors::

        ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition(
            'minimal',
            '<info>%percent%</info>\033[32m%\033[0m <fg=white;bg=blue>%remaining%</>'
        );

.. note::

    A format can span more than one line; that's very useful when you want to
    display more contextual information alongside the progress bar (see the
    example at the beginning of this article).

Bar Settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Among the placeholders, ``bar`` is a bit special as all the characters used
to display it can be customized::

    // the finished part of the bar
    $progressBar->setBarCharacter('<comment>=</comment>');

    // the unfinished part of the bar
    $progressBar->setEmptyBarCharacter(' ');

    // the progress character
    $progressBar->setProgressCharacter('|');

    // the bar width
    $progressBar->setBarWidth(50);

.. caution::

    For performance reasons, Symfony redraws the screen once every 100ms. If this is too
    fast or to slow for your application, use the methods
    :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::minSecondsBetweenRedraws` and
    :method:`Symfony\\Component\\Console\\Helper\\ProgressBar::maxSecondsBetweenRedraws`::

        $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 50000);
        $progressBar->start();

        // this redraws the screen every 100 iterations, but sets additional limits:
        // don't redraw slower than 200ms (0.2) or faster than 100ms (0.1)
        $progressBar->setRedrawFrequency(100);
        $progressBar->maxSecondsBetweenRedraws(0.2);
        $progressBar->minSecondsBetweenRedraws(0.1);

        $i = 0;
        while ($i++ < 50000) {
            // ... do some work

            $progressBar->advance();
        }

Custom Placeholders
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to display some information that depends on the progress bar
display that are not available in the list of built-in placeholders, you can
create your own. Let's see how you can create a ``remaining_steps`` placeholder
that displays the number of remaining steps::

    ProgressBar::setPlaceholderFormatterDefinition(
        'remaining_steps',
        function (ProgressBar $progressBar, OutputInterface $output) {
            return $progressBar->getMaxSteps() - $progressBar->getProgress();
        }
    );

Custom Messages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Progress bars define a placeholder called ``message`` to display arbitrary
messages. However, none of the built-in formats include that placeholder, so
before displaying these messages, you must define your own custom format::

    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('custom', ' %current%/%max% -- %message%');

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 100);
    $progressBar->setFormat('custom');

Now, use the ``setMessage()`` method to set the value of the ``%message%``
placeholder before displaying the progress bar::

    // ...
    $progressBar->setMessage('Start');
    $progressBar->start();
    // 0/100 -- Start

    $progressBar->setMessage('Task is in progress...');
    $progressBar->advance();
    // 1/100 -- Task is in progress...

Messages can be combined with custom placeholders too. In this example, the
progress bar uses the ``%message%`` and ``%filename%`` placeholders::

    ProgressBar::setFormatDefinition('custom', ' %current%/%max% -- %message% (%filename%)');

    $progressBar = new ProgressBar($output, 100);
    $progressBar->setFormat('custom');

The ``setMessage()`` method accepts a second optional argument to set the value
of the custom placeholders::

    // ...
    // $files = ['client-001/invoices.xml', '...'];
    foreach ($files as $filename) {
        $progressBar->setMessage('Importing invoices...');
        $progressBar->setMessage($filename, 'filename');
        $progressBar->advance();
        // 2/100 -- Importing invoices... (client-001/invoices.xml)
    }

.. _console-multiple-progress-bars:

Displaying Multiple Progress Bars
---------------------------------

When using :ref:`Console output sections <console-output-sections>` it's
possible to display multiple progress bars at the same time and change their
progress independently::

    $section1 = $output->section();
    $section2 = $output->section();

    $progress1 = new ProgressBar($section1);
    $progress2 = new ProgressBar($section2);

    $progress1->start(100);
    $progress2->start(100);

    $i = 0;
    while (++$i < 100) {
        $progress1->advance();

        if ($i % 2 === 0) {
            $progress2->advance(4);
        }

        usleep(50000);
    }

After a couple of iterations, the output in the terminal will look like this:

.. code-block:: text

    34/100 [=========>------------------]  34%
    68/100 [===================>--------]  68%
