book/internals/profiler.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Profiler

Profiler
========

When enabled, the Symfony2 profiler collects useful information about each
request made to your application and store them for later analysis. Use the
profiler in the development environment to help you to debug your code and
enhance performance; use it in the production environment to explore problems
after the fact.

You rarely have to deal with the profiler directly as Symfony2 provides
visualizer tools like the Web Debug Toolbar and the Web Profiler. If you use
the Symfony2 sandbox, or create an application with the Symfony2 console, the
profiler, the web debug toolbar, and the web profiler are all already
configured with sensible settings.

.. note::

    The profiler collects information for all requests (simple requests,
    redirects, exceptions, Ajax requests, ESI requests; and for all HTTP
    methods and all formats). It means that for a single URL, you can have
    several associated profiling data (one per external request/response
    pair).

.. index::
   single: Profiler; Visualizing

Visualizing Profiling Data
--------------------------

Using the Web Debug Toolbar
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the development environment, the web debug toolbar is available at the
bottom of all pages. It displays a good summary of the profiling data that
gives you instant access to a lot of useful information when something does
not work as expected.

If the summary provided by the Web Debug Toolbar is not enough, click on the
token link (a string made of 13 random characters) to access the Web Profiler.

.. note::

    If the token is not clickable, it means that the profiler routes are not
    registered (see below for configuration information).

Analyzing Profiling data with the Web Profiler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Web Profiler is a visualization tool for profiling data that you can use
in development to debug your code and enhance performance; but it can also be
used to explore problems that occur in production. It exposes all information
collected by the profiler in a web interface.

.. index::
   single: Profiler; Using the profiler service

Accessing the Profiling information
-----------------------------------

You don't need to use the default visualizer to access the profiling
information. But how can you retrieve profiling information for a specific
request after the fact? When the profiler stores data about a Request, it also
associates a token with it; this token is available in the ``X-Debug-Token``
HTTP header of the Response::

    $profiler = $container->get('profiler')->getFromResponse($response);

    $profiler = $container->get('profiler')->getFromToken($token);

.. tip::

    When the profiler is enabled but not the web debug toolbar, or when you
    want to get the token for an Ajax request, use a tool like Firebug to get
    the value of the ``X-Debug-Token`` HTTP header.

You can also set the token from your code, based for instance on the username
or any other information, to ease the retrieval later on::

    $profiler->setToken('abcd');

You can also use the ``find()`` method to access tokens based on some
criteria::

    // get the latest 10 tokens
    $tokens = $container->get('profiler')->find('', '', 10);

    // get the latest 10 tokens for all URL containing /admin/
    $tokens = $container->get('profiler')->find('', '/admin/', 10);

    // get the latest 10 tokens for local requests
    $tokens = $container->get('profiler')->find('127.0.0.1', '', 10);

If you want to manipulate profiling data on a different machine than the one
where the information were generated, use the ``export()`` and ``import()``
methods::

    // on the production machine
    $profiler = $container->get('profiler')->getFromToken($token);
    $data = $profiler->export();

    // on the development machine
    $profiler->import($data);

.. index::
   single: Profiler; Visualizing

Configuration
-------------

The default Symfony2 configuration comes with sensible settings for the
profiler, the web debug toolbar, and the web profiler. Here is for instance
the configuration for the development environment:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # load the profiler
        framework:
            profiler: { only_exceptions: false }

        # enable the web profiler
        web_profiler:
            toolbar: true
            intercept_redirects: true

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- xmlns:webprofiler="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/webprofiler" -->
        <!-- xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/webprofiler http://symfony.com/schema/dic/webprofiler/webprofiler-1.0.xsd"> -->

        <!-- load the profiler -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler only-exceptions="false" />
        </framework:config>

        <!-- enable the web profiler -->
        <webprofiler:config
            toolbar="true"
            intercept-redirects="true"
        />

    .. code-block:: php

        // load the profiler
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array('only-exceptions' => false),
        ));

        // enable the web profiler
        $container->loadFromExtension('web_profiler', array(
            'toolbar' => true,
            'intercept-redirects' => true,
        ));

When ``only-exceptions`` is set to ``true``, the profiler only collects data
when an exception is thrown by the application.

When ``intercept-redirects`` is set to ``true``, the web profiler intercepts
the redirects and gives you the opportunity to look at the collected data
before following the redirect.

If you enable the web profiler, you also need to mount the profiler routes:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        _profiler:
            resource: @WebProfilerBundle/Resources/config/routing/profiler.xml
            prefix:   /_profiler

    .. code-block:: xml

        <import resource="@WebProfilerBundle/Resources/config/routing/profiler.xml" prefix="/_profiler" />

    .. code-block:: php

        $collection->addCollection($loader->import("@WebProfilerBundle/Resources/config/routing/profiler.xml"), '/_profiler');

As the profiler adds some overhead, you might want to enable it only under
certain circumstances in the production environment. The ``only-exceptions``
settings limits profiling to 500 pages, but what if you want to get
information when the client IP comes from a specific address, or for a limited
portion of the website? You can use a request matcher:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # enables the profiler only for request coming for the 192.168.0.0 network
        framework:
            profiler:
                matcher: { ip: 192.168.0.0/24 }

        # enables the profiler only for the /admin URLs
        framework:
            profiler:
                matcher: { path: "^/admin/" }

        # combine rules
        framework:
            profiler:
                matcher: { ip: 192.168.0.0/24, path: "^/admin/" }

        # use a custom matcher instance defined in the "custom_matcher" service
        framework:
            profiler:
                matcher: { service: custom_matcher }

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- enables the profiler only for request coming for the 192.168.0.0 network -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler>
                <framework:matcher ip="192.168.0.0/24" />
            </framework:profiler>
        </framework:config>

        <!-- enables the profiler only for the /admin URLs -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler>
                <framework:matcher path="^/admin/" />
            </framework:profiler>
        </framework:config>

        <!-- combine rules -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler>
                <framework:matcher ip="192.168.0.0/24" path="^/admin/" />
            </framework:profiler>
        </framework:config>

        <!-- use a custom matcher instance defined in the "custom_matcher" service -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler>
                <framework:matcher service="custom_matcher" />
            </framework:profiler>
        </framework:config>

    .. code-block:: php

        // enables the profiler only for request coming for the 192.168.0.0 network
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array(
                'matcher' => array('ip' => '192.168.0.0/24'),
            ),
        ));

        // enables the profiler only for the /admin URLs
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array(
                'matcher' => array('path' => '^/admin/'),
            ),
        ));

        // combine rules
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array(
                'matcher' => array('ip' => '192.168.0.0/24', 'path' => '^/admin/'),
            ),
        ));

        # use a custom matcher instance defined in the "custom_matcher" service
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array(
                'matcher' => array('service' => 'custom_matcher'),
            ),
        ));

Learn more from the Cookbook
----------------------------

* :doc:`/cookbook/testing/profiling`
* :doc:`/cookbook/profiler/data_collector`

Commit message:

Document the verbose option for the WDTB

book/internals/profiler.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Profiler

Profiler
========

When enabled, the Symfony2 profiler collects useful information about each
request made to your application and store them for later analysis. Use the
profiler in the development environment to help you to debug your code and
enhance performance; use it in the production environment to explore problems
after the fact.

You rarely have to deal with the profiler directly as Symfony2 provides
visualizer tools like the Web Debug Toolbar and the Web Profiler. If you use
the Symfony2 sandbox, or create an application with the Symfony2 console, the
profiler, the web debug toolbar, and the web profiler are all already
configured with sensible settings.

.. note::

    The profiler collects information for all requests (simple requests,
    redirects, exceptions, Ajax requests, ESI requests; and for all HTTP
    methods and all formats). It means that for a single URL, you can have
    several associated profiling data (one per external request/response
    pair).

.. index::
   single: Profiler; Visualizing

Visualizing Profiling Data
--------------------------

Using the Web Debug Toolbar
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the development environment, the web debug toolbar is available at the
bottom of all pages. It displays a good summary of the profiling data that
gives you instant access to a lot of useful information when something does
not work as expected.

If the summary provided by the Web Debug Toolbar is not enough, click on the
token link (a string made of 13 random characters) to access the Web Profiler.

.. note::

    If the token is not clickable, it means that the profiler routes are not
    registered (see below for configuration information).

Analyzing Profiling data with the Web Profiler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Web Profiler is a visualization tool for profiling data that you can use
in development to debug your code and enhance performance; but it can also be
used to explore problems that occur in production. It exposes all information
collected by the profiler in a web interface.

.. index::
   single: Profiler; Using the profiler service

Accessing the Profiling information
-----------------------------------

You don't need to use the default visualizer to access the profiling
information. But how can you retrieve profiling information for a specific
request after the fact? When the profiler stores data about a Request, it also
associates a token with it; this token is available in the ``X-Debug-Token``
HTTP header of the Response::

    $profiler = $container->get('profiler')->getFromResponse($response);

    $profiler = $container->get('profiler')->getFromToken($token);

.. tip::

    When the profiler is enabled but not the web debug toolbar, or when you
    want to get the token for an Ajax request, use a tool like Firebug to get
    the value of the ``X-Debug-Token`` HTTP header.

You can also set the token from your code, based for instance on the username
or any other information, to ease the retrieval later on::

    $profiler->setToken('abcd');

You can also use the ``find()`` method to access tokens based on some
criteria::

    // get the latest 10 tokens
    $tokens = $container->get('profiler')->find('', '', 10);

    // get the latest 10 tokens for all URL containing /admin/
    $tokens = $container->get('profiler')->find('', '/admin/', 10);

    // get the latest 10 tokens for local requests
    $tokens = $container->get('profiler')->find('127.0.0.1', '', 10);

If you want to manipulate profiling data on a different machine than the one
where the information were generated, use the ``export()`` and ``import()``
methods::

    // on the production machine
    $profiler = $container->get('profiler')->getFromToken($token);
    $data = $profiler->export();

    // on the development machine
    $profiler->import($data);

.. index::
   single: Profiler; Visualizing

Configuration
-------------

The default Symfony2 configuration comes with sensible settings for the
profiler, the web debug toolbar, and the web profiler. Here is for instance
the configuration for the development environment:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # load the profiler
        framework:
            profiler: { only_exceptions: false }

        # enable the web profiler
        web_profiler:
            toolbar: true
            intercept_redirects: true
            verbose: true

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- xmlns:webprofiler="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/webprofiler" -->
        <!-- xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/webprofiler http://symfony.com/schema/dic/webprofiler/webprofiler-1.0.xsd"> -->

        <!-- load the profiler -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler only-exceptions="false" />
        </framework:config>

        <!-- enable the web profiler -->
        <webprofiler:config
            toolbar="true"
            intercept-redirects="true"
            verbose="true"
        />

    .. code-block:: php

        // load the profiler
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array('only-exceptions' => false),
        ));

        // enable the web profiler
        $container->loadFromExtension('web_profiler', array(
            'toolbar' => true,
            'intercept-redirects' => true,
            'verbose' => true,
        ));

When ``only-exceptions`` is set to ``true``, the profiler only collects data
when an exception is thrown by the application.

When ``intercept-redirects`` is set to ``true``, the web profiler intercepts
the redirects and gives you the opportunity to look at the collected data
before following the redirect.

When ``verbose`` is set to ``true``, the Web Debug Toolbar displays a lot of
information. Setting ``verbose`` to ``false`` hide some secondary information
to make the toolbar shorter.

If you enable the web profiler, you also need to mount the profiler routes:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        _profiler:
            resource: @WebProfilerBundle/Resources/config/routing/profiler.xml
            prefix:   /_profiler

    .. code-block:: xml

        <import resource="@WebProfilerBundle/Resources/config/routing/profiler.xml" prefix="/_profiler" />

    .. code-block:: php

        $collection->addCollection($loader->import("@WebProfilerBundle/Resources/config/routing/profiler.xml"), '/_profiler');

As the profiler adds some overhead, you might want to enable it only under
certain circumstances in the production environment. The ``only-exceptions``
settings limits profiling to 500 pages, but what if you want to get
information when the client IP comes from a specific address, or for a limited
portion of the website? You can use a request matcher:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # enables the profiler only for request coming for the 192.168.0.0 network
        framework:
            profiler:
                matcher: { ip: 192.168.0.0/24 }

        # enables the profiler only for the /admin URLs
        framework:
            profiler:
                matcher: { path: "^/admin/" }

        # combine rules
        framework:
            profiler:
                matcher: { ip: 192.168.0.0/24, path: "^/admin/" }

        # use a custom matcher instance defined in the "custom_matcher" service
        framework:
            profiler:
                matcher: { service: custom_matcher }

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- enables the profiler only for request coming for the 192.168.0.0 network -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler>
                <framework:matcher ip="192.168.0.0/24" />
            </framework:profiler>
        </framework:config>

        <!-- enables the profiler only for the /admin URLs -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler>
                <framework:matcher path="^/admin/" />
            </framework:profiler>
        </framework:config>

        <!-- combine rules -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler>
                <framework:matcher ip="192.168.0.0/24" path="^/admin/" />
            </framework:profiler>
        </framework:config>

        <!-- use a custom matcher instance defined in the "custom_matcher" service -->
        <framework:config>
            <framework:profiler>
                <framework:matcher service="custom_matcher" />
            </framework:profiler>
        </framework:config>

    .. code-block:: php

        // enables the profiler only for request coming for the 192.168.0.0 network
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array(
                'matcher' => array('ip' => '192.168.0.0/24'),
            ),
        ));

        // enables the profiler only for the /admin URLs
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array(
                'matcher' => array('path' => '^/admin/'),
            ),
        ));

        // combine rules
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array(
                'matcher' => array('ip' => '192.168.0.0/24', 'path' => '^/admin/'),
            ),
        ));

        # use a custom matcher instance defined in the "custom_matcher" service
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', array(
            'profiler' => array(
                'matcher' => array('service' => 'custom_matcher'),
            ),
        ));

Learn more from the Cookbook
----------------------------

* :doc:`/cookbook/testing/profiling`
* :doc:`/cookbook/profiler/data_collector`
