reference/constraints/Range.rst, before:

Range
=====

Validates that a given number is *between* some minimum and maximum number.

+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Applies to     | :ref:`property or method<validation-property-target>`               |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options        | - `min`_                                                            |
|                | - `max`_                                                            |
|                | - `minMessage`_                                                     |
|                | - `maxMessage`_                                                     |
|                | - `invalidMessage`_                                                 |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Class          | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Validator\\Constraints\\Range`          |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Validator      | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Validator\\Constraints\\RangeValidator` |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Basic Usage
-----------

To verify that the "height" field of a class is between "120" and "180", you might add
the following:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # src/Acme/EventBundle/Resources/config/validation.yml
        Acme\EventBundle\Entity\Participant:
            properties:
                height:
                    - Range:
                        min: 120
                        max: 180
                        minMessage: You must be at least 120cm tall to enter
                        maxMessage: You cannot be taller than 180cm to enter

    .. code-block:: php-annotations

        // src/Acme/EventBundle/Entity/Participant.php
        use Symfony\Component\Validator\Constraints as Assert;

        class Participant
        {
            /**
             * @Assert\Range(
             *      min = "120",
             *      max = "180",
             *      minMessage = "You must be at least 120cm tall to enter",
             *      maxMessage="You cannot be taller than 180cm to enter"
             * )
             */
             protected $height;
        }

Options
-------

min
~~~

**type**: ``integer`` [:ref:`default option<validation-default-option>`]

This required option is the "min" value. Validation will fail if the given
value is **less** than this min value.

max
~~~

**type**: ``integer`` [:ref:`default option<validation-default-option>`]

This required option is the "max" value. Validation will fail if the given
value is **greater** than this max value.

minMessage
~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``This value should be {{ limit }} or more.``

The message that will be shown if the underlying value is less than the `min`_
option.

maxMessage
~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``This value should be {{ limit }} or less.``

The message that will be shown if the underlying value is more than the `max`_
option.

invalidMessage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``This value should be a valid number.``

The message that will be shown if the underlying value is not a number (per
the `is_numeric`_ PHP function).

.. _`is_numeric`: http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.is-numeric.php

Commit message:

[reference][constraints] Tweaks for #1362 - Size and Range validator updates

reference/constraints/Range.rst, after:

Range
=====

Validates that a given number is *between* some minimum and maximum number.

.. versionadded:: 2.1
    The Range constraint was added in Symfony 2.1.

+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Applies to     | :ref:`property or method<validation-property-target>`               |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Options        | - `min`_                                                            |
|                | - `max`_                                                            |
|                | - `minMessage`_                                                     |
|                | - `maxMessage`_                                                     |
|                | - `invalidMessage`_                                                 |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Class          | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Validator\\Constraints\\Range`          |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Validator      | :class:`Symfony\\Component\\Validator\\Constraints\\RangeValidator` |
+----------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Basic Usage
-----------

To verify that the "height" field of a class is between "120" and "180", you might add
the following:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # src/Acme/EventBundle/Resources/config/validation.yml
        Acme\EventBundle\Entity\Participant:
            properties:
                height:
                    - Range:
                        min: 120
                        max: 180
                        minMessage: You must be at least 120cm tall to enter
                        maxMessage: You cannot be taller than 180cm to enter

    .. code-block:: php-annotations

        // src/Acme/EventBundle/Entity/Participant.php
        use Symfony\Component\Validator\Constraints as Assert;

        class Participant
        {
            /**
             * @Assert\Range(
             *      min = "120",
             *      max = "180",
             *      minMessage = "You must be at least 120cm tall to enter",
             *      maxMessage="You cannot be taller than 180cm to enter"
             * )
             */
             protected $height;
        }

Options
-------

min
~~~

**type**: ``integer`` [:ref:`default option<validation-default-option>`]

This required option is the "min" value. Validation will fail if the given
value is **less** than this min value.

max
~~~

**type**: ``integer`` [:ref:`default option<validation-default-option>`]

This required option is the "max" value. Validation will fail if the given
value is **greater** than this max value.

minMessage
~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``This value should be {{ limit }} or more.``

The message that will be shown if the underlying value is less than the `min`_
option.

maxMessage
~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``This value should be {{ limit }} or less.``

The message that will be shown if the underlying value is more than the `max`_
option.

invalidMessage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``This value should be a valid number.``

The message that will be shown if the underlying value is not a number (per
the `is_numeric`_ PHP function).

.. _`is_numeric`: http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.is-numeric.php
