.. index::
    single: Environment Variables; env vars

How to Configure Symfony With Environment Variables
===================================================

In :doc:`/configuration`, you learned how to manage your application
configuration. In this article you'll learn how to use environment variables (or
"env vars" for short) to configure some of those options, which is a common
practice to configure sensitive options such as credentials and passwords.

.. _config-env-vars:

Referencing Env Vars in Configuration Files
-------------------------------------------

First, define the value of the env var, using your shell environment or the
``.env`` file at the project root directory. For example, consider the
``DATABASE_URL`` env var defined when installing the ``doctrine`` recipe (by
convention the env var names are always uppercase):

.. code-block:: bash

    # .env
    DATABASE_URL="mysql://db_user:db_password@127.0.0.1:3306/db_name"

Then, you can reference those env vars in any configuration option enclosing
their names with ``env()``. Their actual values will be resolved at runtime
(once per request), so that dumped containers can be reconfigured dynamically
even after being compiled:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/packages/doctrine.yaml
        doctrine:
            dbal:
                url: '%env(DATABASE_URL)%'
            # ...

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/packages/doctrine.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xmlns:doctrine="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/doctrine"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd
                http://symfony.com/schema/dic/doctrine
                https://symfony.com/schema/dic/doctrine/doctrine-1.0.xsd">

            <doctrine:config>
                <doctrine:dbal
                    url="%env(DATABASE_URL)%"
                />
            </doctrine:config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/packages/doctrine.php
        $container->loadFromExtension('doctrine', [
            'dbal' => [
                'url' => '%env(DATABASE_URL)%',
            ]
        ]);

You can also give the ``env()`` parameters a default value, which will be used
whenever the corresponding environment variable is *not* found:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/services.yaml
        parameters:
            env(DATABASE_HOST): localhost

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/services.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

            <parameters>
                <parameter key="env(DATABASE_HOST)">localhost</parameter>
            </parameters>
         </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/services.php
        $container->setParameter('env(DATABASE_HOST)', 'localhost');

.. _configuration-env-var-in-prod:

Configuring Environment Variables in Production
-----------------------------------------------

During development, you'll use the ``.env`` file to configure your environment
variables. On your production server, it is recommended to configure these at
the web server level. If you're using Apache or Nginx, you can use e.g. one of
the following:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: apache

        <VirtualHost *:80>
            # ...

            SetEnv DATABASE_URL "mysql://db_user:db_password@127.0.0.1:3306/db_name"
        </VirtualHost>

    .. code-block:: nginx

        fastcgi_param DATABASE_URL "mysql://db_user:db_password@127.0.0.1:3306/db_name";

.. caution::

    Beware that dumping the contents of the ``$_SERVER`` and ``$_ENV`` variables
    or outputting the ``phpinfo()`` contents will display the values of the
    environment variables, exposing sensitive information such as the database
    credentials.

    The values of the env vars are also exposed in the web interface of the
    :doc:`Symfony profiler </profiler>`. In practice this shouldn't be a
    problem because the web profiler must **never** be enabled in production.

Environment Variable Processors
-------------------------------

The values of environment variables are considered strings by default.
However, your code may expect other data types, like integers or booleans.
Symfony solves this problem with *processors*, which modify the contents of the
given environment variables. The following example uses the integer processor to
turn the value of the ``HTTP_PORT`` env var into an integer:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # config/packages/framework.yaml
        framework:
            router:
                http_port: env(int:HTTP_PORT)

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- config/packages/framework.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xmlns:framework="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd
                http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony
                https://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony/symfony-1.0.xsd">

            <framework:config>
                <framework:router http-port="%env(int:HTTP_PORT)%"/>
            </framework:config>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        // config/packages/framework.php
        $container->loadFromExtension('framework', [
            'router' => [
                'http_port' => '%env(int:HTTP_PORT)%',
            ],
        ]);

Symfony provides the following env var processors:

``env(string:FOO)``
    Casts ``FOO`` to a string:

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/packages/framework.yaml
            parameters:
                env(SECRET): 'some_secret'
            framework:
                secret: '%env(string:SECRET)%'

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/packages/framework.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xmlns:framework="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony/symfony-1.0.xsd">

                <parameters>
                    <parameter key="env(SECRET)">some_secret</parameter>
                </parameters>

                <framework:config secret="%env(string:SECRET)%"/>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/packages/framework.php
            $container->setParameter('env(SECRET)', 'some_secret');
            $container->loadFromExtension('framework', [
                'secret' => '%env(string:SECRET)%',
            ]);

``env(bool:FOO)``
    Casts ``FOO`` to a bool:

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/packages/framework.yaml
            parameters:
                env(HTTP_METHOD_OVERRIDE): 'true'
            framework:
                http_method_override: '%env(bool:HTTP_METHOD_OVERRIDE)%'

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/packages/framework.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xmlns:framework="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony/symfony-1.0.xsd">

                <parameters>
                    <parameter key="env(HTTP_METHOD_OVERRIDE)">true</parameter>
                </parameters>

                <framework:config http-methode-override="%env(bool:HTTP_METHOD_OVERRIDE)%"/>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/packages/framework.php
            $container->setParameter('env(HTTP_METHOD_OVERRIDE)', 'true');
            $container->loadFromExtension('framework', [
                'http_method_override' => '%env(bool:HTTP_METHOD_OVERRIDE)%',
            ]);

``env(int:FOO)``
    Casts ``FOO`` to an int.

``env(float:FOO)``
    Casts ``FOO`` to a float.

``env(const:FOO)``
    Finds the const value named in ``FOO``:

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/packages/security.yaml
            parameters:
                env(HEALTH_CHECK_METHOD): 'Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request::METHOD_HEAD'
            security:
                access_control:
                    - { path: '^/health-check$', methods: '%env(const:HEALTH_CHECK_METHOD)%' }

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/packages/security.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xmlns:security="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/security"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

                <parameters>
                    <parameter key="env(HEALTH_CHECK_METHOD)">Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request::METHOD_HEAD</parameter>
                </parameters>

                <security:config>
                    <rule path="^/health-check$" methods="%env(const:HEALTH_CHECK_METHOD)%"/>
                </security:config>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/packages/security.php
            $container->setParameter('env(HEALTH_CHECK_METHOD)', 'Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request::METHOD_HEAD');
            $container->loadFromExtension('security', [
                'access_control' => [
                    [
                        'path' => '^/health-check$',
                        'methods' => '%env(const:HEALTH_CHECK_METHOD)%',
                    ],
                ],
            ]);

``env(base64:FOO)``
    Decodes the content of ``FOO``, which is a base64 encoded string.

``env(json:FOO)``
    Decodes the content of ``FOO``, which is a JSON encoded string. It returns
    either an array or ``null``:

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/packages/framework.yaml
            parameters:
                env(TRUSTED_HOSTS): '["10.0.0.1", "10.0.0.2"]'
            framework:
                trusted_hosts: '%env(json:TRUSTED_HOSTS)%'

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/packages/framework.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xmlns:framework="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony/symfony-1.0.xsd">

                <parameters>
                    <parameter key="env(TRUSTED_HOSTS)">["10.0.0.1", "10.0.0.2"]</parameter>
                </parameters>

                <framework:config trusted-hosts="%env(json:TRUSTED_HOSTS)%"/>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/packages/framework.php
            $container->setParameter('env(TRUSTED_HOSTS)', '["10.0.0.1", "10.0.0.2"]');
            $container->loadFromExtension('framework', [
                'trusted_hosts' => '%env(json:TRUSTED_HOSTS)%',
            ]);

``env(yaml:FOO)``
    Decodes the content of ``FOO``, which is a YAML encoded string. It returns
    either an array or ``null``. Mostly useful in combination with
    ``file``:

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/services.yaml
            parameters:
                env(SECRETS_FILE): '/opt/application/.secrets.yaml'
                database_password: '%env(key:database_password:yaml:file:SECRETS_FILE)%'
                # if SECRETS_FILE contents are: 'database_password: secret' it returns "secret"

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/services.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xmlns:framework="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony/symfony-1.0.xsd">

                <parameters>
                    <parameter key="env(SECRETS_FILE)">/opt/application/.secrets.yaml</parameter>
                    <parameter key="database_password">%env(key:database_password:yaml:file:SECRETS_FILE)%</parameter>
                </parameters>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/services.php
            $container->setParameter('env(SECRETS_FILE)', '/opt/application/.secrets.yaml');
            $container->setParameter('database_password', '%env(key:database_password:yaml:file:SECRETS_FILE)%');

``env(resolve:FOO)``
    Replaces the string ``FOO`` by the value of a config parameter with the
    same name:

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/packages/sentry.yaml
            parameters:
                env(HOST): '10.0.0.1'
                env(SENTRY_DSN): 'http://%env(HOST)%/project'
            sentry:
                dsn: '%env(resolve:SENTRY_DSN)%'

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/packages/sentry.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

                <parameters>
                    <parameter key="env(HOST)">10.0.0.1</parameter>
                    <parameter key="env(SENTRY_DSN)">http://%env(HOST)%/project</parameter>
                </parameters>

                <sentry:config dsn="%env(resolve:SENTRY_DSN)%"/>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/packages/sentry.php
            $container->setParameter('env(HOST)', '10.0.0.1');
            $container->setParameter('env(SENTRY_DSN)', 'http://%env(HOST)%/project');
            $container->loadFromExtension('sentry', [
                'dsn' => '%env(resolve:SENTRY_DSN)%',
            ]);

``env(csv:FOO)``
    Decodes the content of ``FOO``, which is a CSV-encoded string:

    .. code-block:: yaml

        parameters:
            env(TRUSTED_HOSTS): "10.0.0.1, 10.0.0.2"
        framework:
           trusted_hosts: '%env(csv:TRUSTED_HOSTS)%'

``env(file:FOO)``
    Returns the contents of a file whose path is the value of the ``FOO`` env var:

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/packages/framework.yaml
            parameters:
                env(AUTH_FILE): '../config/auth.json'
            google:
                auth: '%env(file:AUTH_FILE)%'

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/packages/framework.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xmlns:framework="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony/symfony-1.0.xsd">

                <parameters>
                    <parameter key="env(AUTH_FILE)">../config/auth.json</parameter>
                </parameters>

                <google auth="%env(file:AUTH_FILE)%"/>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/packages/framework.php
            $container->setParameter('env(AUTH_FILE)', '../config/auth.json');
            $container->loadFromExtension('google', [
                'auth' => '%env(file:AUTH_FILE)%',
            ]);

``env(trim:FOO)``
    Trims the content of ``FOO`` env var, removing whitespaces from the beginning
    and end of the string. This is especially useful in combination with the
    ``file`` processor, as it'll remove newlines at the end of a file.

    .. versionadded:: 4.3

        The ``trim`` processor was introduced in Symfony 4.3.

``env(key:FOO:BAR)``
    Retrieves the value associated with the key ``FOO`` from the array whose
    contents are stored in the ``BAR`` env var:

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/services.yaml
            parameters:
                env(SECRETS_FILE): '/opt/application/.secrets.json'
                database_password: '%env(key:database_password:json:file:SECRETS_FILE)%'
                # if SECRETS_FILE contents are: {"database_password": "secret"} it returns "secret"

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/services.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xmlns:framework="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony/symfony-1.0.xsd">

                <parameters>
                    <parameter key="env(SECRETS_FILE)">/opt/application/.secrets.json</parameter>
                    <parameter key="database_password">%env(key:database_password:json:file:SECRETS_FILE)%</parameter>
                </parameters>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/services.php
            $container->setParameter('env(SECRETS_FILE)', '/opt/application/.secrets.json');
            $container->setParameter('database_password', '%env(key:database_password:json:file:SECRETS_FILE)%');

``env(default:fallback_param:BAR)``
    Retrieves the value of the parameter ``fallback_param`` when the ``BAR`` env
    var is not available:

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/services.yaml
            parameters:
                # if PRIVATE_KEY is not a valid file path, the content of raw_key is returned
                private_key: '%env(default:raw_key:file:PRIVATE_KEY)%'
                raw_key: '%env(PRIVATE_KEY)%'

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/services.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xmlns:framework="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony
                    https://symfony.com/schema/dic/symfony/symfony-1.0.xsd">
                <parameters>
                    <!-- if PRIVATE_KEY is not a valid file path, the content of raw_key is returned -->
                    <parameter key="private_key">%env(default:raw_key:file:PRIVATE_KEY)%</parameter>
                    <parameter key="raw_key">%env(PRIVATE_KEY)%</parameter>
                </parameters>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/services.php

            // if PRIVATE_KEY is not a valid file path, the content of raw_key is returned
            $container->setParameter('private_key', '%env(default:raw_key:file:PRIVATE_KEY)%');
            $container->setParameter('raw_key', '%env(PRIVATE_KEY)%');

    When the fallback parameter is omitted (e.g. ``env(default::API_KEY)``), the
    value returned is ``null``.

    .. versionadded:: 4.3

        The ``default`` processor was introduced in Symfony 4.3.

``env(url:FOO)``
    Parses an absolute URL and returns its components as an associative array.

    .. code-block:: bash

        # .env
        MONGODB_URL="mongodb://db_user:db_password@127.0.0.1:27017/db_name"

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/packages/mongodb.yaml
            mongo_db_bundle:
                clients:
                    default:
                        hosts:
                            - { host: '%env(key:host:url:MONGODB_URL)%', port: '%env(key:port:url:MONGODB_URL)%' }
                        username: '%env(key:user:url:MONGODB_URL)%'
                        password: '%env(key:pass:url:MONGODB_URL)%'
                connections:
                    default:
                        database_name: '%env(key:path:url:MONGODB_URL)%'

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/packages/mongodb.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

                <mongodb:config>
                    <mongodb:client name="default" username="%env(key:user:url:MONGODB_URL)%" password="%env(key:pass:url:MONGODB_URL)%">
                        <mongodb:host host="%env(key:host:url:MONGODB_URL)%" port="%env(key:port:url:MONGODB_URL)%"/>
                    </mongodb:client>
                    <mongodb:connections name="default" database_name="%env(key:path:url:MONGODB_URL)%"/>
                </mongodb:config>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/packages/mongodb.php
            $container->loadFromExtension('mongodb', [
                'clients' => [
                    'default' => [
                        'hosts' => [
                            [
                                'host' => '%env(key:host:url:MONGODB_URL)%',
                                'port' => '%env(key:port:url:MONGODB_URL)%',
                            ],
                        ],
                        'username' => '%env(key:user:url:MONGODB_URL)%',
                        'password' => '%env(key:pass:url:MONGODB_URL)%',
                    ],
                ],
                'connections' => [
                    'default' => [
                        'database_name' => '%env(key:path:url:MONGODB_URL)%',
                    ],
                ],
            ]);

    .. caution::

        In order to ease extraction of the resource from the URL, the leading
        ``/`` is trimmed from the ``path`` component.

    .. versionadded:: 4.3

        The ``url`` processor was introduced in Symfony 4.3.

``env(query_string:FOO)``
    Parses the query string part of the given URL and returns its components as
    an associative array.

    .. code-block:: bash

        # .env
        MONGODB_URL="mongodb://db_user:db_password@127.0.0.1:27017/db_name?timeout=3000"

    .. configuration-block::

        .. code-block:: yaml

            # config/packages/mongodb.yaml
            mongo_db_bundle:
                clients:
                    default:
                        # ...
                        connectTimeoutMS: '%env(int:key:timeout:query_string:MONGODB_URL)%'

        .. code-block:: xml

            <!-- config/packages/mongodb.xml -->
            <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
            <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services
                    http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services/services-1.0.xsd">

                <mongodb:config>
                    <mongodb:client name="default" connectTimeoutMS="%env(int:key:timeout:query_string:MONGODB_URL)%"/>
                </mongodb:config>
            </container>

        .. code-block:: php

            // config/packages/mongodb.php
            $container->loadFromExtension('mongodb', [
                'clients' => [
                    'default' => [
                        // ...
                        'connectTimeoutMS' => '%env(int:key:timeout:query_string:MONGODB_URL)%',
                    ],
                ],
            ]);

    .. versionadded:: 4.3

        The ``query_string`` processor was introduced in Symfony 4.3.

It is also possible to combine any number of processors:

.. code-block:: yaml

    parameters:
        env(AUTH_FILE): "%kernel.project_dir%/config/auth.json"
    google:
        # 1. gets the value of the AUTH_FILE env var
        # 2. replaces the values of any config param to get the config path
        # 3. gets the content of the file stored in that path
        # 4. JSON-decodes the content of the file and returns it
        auth: '%env(json:file:resolve:AUTH_FILE)%'

Custom Environment Variable Processors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's also possible to add your own processors for environment variables. First,
create a class that implements
:class:`Symfony\\Component\\DependencyInjection\\EnvVarProcessorInterface`::

    use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\EnvVarProcessorInterface;

    class LowercasingEnvVarProcessor implements EnvVarProcessorInterface
    {
        public function getEnv($prefix, $name, \Closure $getEnv)
        {
            $env = $getEnv($name);

            return strtolower($env);
        }

        public static function getProvidedTypes()
        {
            return [
                'lowercase' => 'string',
            ];
        }
    }

To enable the new processor in the app, register it as a service and
:doc:`tag it </service_container/tags>` with the ``container.env_var_processor``
tag. If you're using the
:ref:`default services.yaml configuration <service-container-services-load-example>`,
this is already done for you, thanks to :ref:`autoconfiguration <services-autoconfigure>`.

Constants
---------

The container also has support for setting PHP constants as parameters.
See :ref:`component-di-parameters-constants` for more details.

Miscellaneous Configuration
---------------------------

You can mix whatever configuration format you like (YAML, XML and PHP) in
``config/packages/``.  Importing a PHP file gives you the flexibility to add
whatever is needed in the container. For instance, you can create a
``drupal.php`` file in which you set a database URL based on Drupal's database
configuration::

    // config/packages/drupal.php

    // import Drupal's configuration
    include_once('/path/to/drupal/sites/default/settings.php');

    // set a app.database_url parameter
    $container->setParameter('app.database_url', $db_url);

.. _`SetEnv`: http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/env.html
.. _`fastcgi_param`: http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_fastcgi_module.html#fastcgi_param
