cookbook/doctrine/common_extensions.rst, before:

Doctrine Extensions: Timestampable, Sluggable, Translatable, etc.
=================================================================

Doctrine2 is very flexible, and the community has already created a series
of useful Doctrine extensions to help you with common entity-related tasks.

One bundle in particular - the `DoctrineExtensionsBundle`_ - provides integration
with an extensions library that offers `Sluggable`_, `Translatable`_, `Timestampable`_,
`Loggable`_, and `Tree`_ behaviors.

See the bundle for more details.

.. _`DoctrineExtensionsBundle`: https://github.com/stof/StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle
.. _`Sluggable`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/sluggable.md
.. _`Translatable`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/translatable.md
.. _`Timestampable`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/timestampable.md
.. _`Loggable`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/loggable.md
.. _`Tree`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/tree.md

Commit message:

[cookbook][doctrine] Tweaking information about the doctrine extensions library to include the link directly to registering your own listeners, if you choose to do so.
Overall, the goal is to clarify how you can use these things. The responsibility is now on those 2 libraries to explain things nicely. See #604

cookbook/doctrine/common_extensions.rst, after:

Doctrine Extensions: Timestampable, Sluggable, Translatable, etc.
=================================================================

Doctrine2 is very flexible, and the community has already created a series
of useful Doctrine extensions to help you with common entity-related tasks.

One library in particular - the `DoctrineExtensions`_ library - provides integration
functionality for `Sluggable`_, `Translatable`_, `Timestampable`_, `Loggable`_,
`Tree`_ and `Sortable`_ behaviors.

The usage for each of these extensions is explained in that repository.

However, to install/activate each extension you must register and activate an
:doc:`Event Listener</cookbook/doctrine/event_listeners_subscribers>`.
To do this, you have two options:

#. Use the `DoctrineExtensionsBundle`_, which integrates the above library.

#. Implement this services directly by following the documentation for integration
   with Symfony2: `Install Gedmo Doctrine2 extensions in Symfony2`_

.. _`DoctrineExtensions`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions
.. _`DoctrineExtensionsBundle`: https://github.com/stof/StofDoctrineExtensionsBundle
.. _`Sluggable`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/sluggable.md
.. _`Translatable`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/translatable.md
.. _`Timestampable`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/timestampable.md
.. _`Loggable`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/loggable.md
.. _`Tree`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/tree.md
.. _`Sortable`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/sortable.md
.. _`Install Gedmo Doctrine2 extensions in Symfony2`: https://github.com/l3pp4rd/DoctrineExtensions/blob/master/doc/symfony2.md
