book/installation.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Installation

Installing and Configuring Symfony
==================================

The goal of this chapter is to get you up-and-running with a working application
built on top of Symfony. Fortunately, Symfony offers "distributions", which
are functional Symfony "starter" projects that you can download and begin
developing in immediately.

Downloading a Symfony2 Distribution
-----------------------------------

Symfony2 packages "distributions", which are fully-functional applications
that include the Symfony2 core libraries, a selection of useful bundles, a
sensible directory structure and some default configuration. When you download
a Symfony2 distribution, you're downloading a functional application skeleton
that can be used immediately to begin developing your application.

Start by visiting the Symfony2 download page at `http://symfony.com/download`_.
On this page, you'll see the *Symfony Standard Edition*, which is the main
Symfony2 distribution. Here, you'll need to make two choices:

* Download either a ``.tgz`` or ``.zip`` archive - both are equivalent, download
  whatever you're more comfortable using;

* Download the distribution with or without vendors. If you have `Git`_ installed
  on your computer, you should download Symfony2 "without vendors", as it
  adds a bit more flexibility when including third-party/vendor libraries.

Download one of the archives somewhere under your local web server/s root
directory and unpack it. From a UNIX command line, this can be done with
one of the following commands (replacing ``###`` with your actual filename):

.. code-block:: bash

    # for .tgz file
    tar zxvf Symfony_Standard_Vendors_2.0.###.tgz
    
    # for a .zip file
    unzip Symfony_Standard_Vendors_2.0.###.tgz

When you're finished, you should have a ``Symfony/`` directory that looks
something like this:

.. code-block:: text

    www/ <- your web root directory
        Symfony/ <- the unpacked archive
            app/
                cache/
                config/
                logs/
            src/
                ...
            vendor/
                ...
            web/
                app.php
                ...

Updating Vendors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Finally, if you downloaded the archive "without vendors", install the vendors
by running the following command from the command line:

.. code-block:: bash

    php bin/vendors.php

.. tip::

    You can call ``php bin/vendors.php --min`` if you don't want all of the
    Git history for your vendor libraries. This also makes the installation
    much faster.

This command downloads all of the necessary vendor libraries - including Symfony
itself - into the ``vendor/`` directory.

Configuration and Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At this point, all of the needed third-party libraries now live in the ``vendor/``
directory. You also have a default application setup in ``app/`` and some
sample code inside the ``src/`` directory.

Symfony2 comes with a visual server configuration tester to help make sure
your Web server and PHP are configured to use Symfony. Use the following URL
URL to check your configuration:

.. code-block:: text

    http://localhost/Symfony/web/config.php

If there are any issues, correct them now before moving on.

.. sidebar:: Setting up Permissions

    One common issue is that the ``app/cache`` and ``app/log`` directories
    must be writable both by the web server and the command line user. On
    a UNIX system, if your web server user is different from your command
    line user, you can run the following commands just once in your project
    to ensure that permissions will be setup properly. Change ``www-data``
    to the web server user and ``yourname`` to your command line user:

    .. code-block:: bash

        rm -rf app/cache/*
        rm -rf app/log/*

        sudo chmod +a "www-data allow delete,write,append,file_inherit,directory_inherit" app/cache
        sudo chmod +a "www-data allow delete,write,append,file_inherit,directory_inherit" app/logs

        sudo chmod +a "yourname allow delete,write,append,file_inherit,directory_inherit" app/cache
        sudo chmod +a "yourname allow delete,write,append,file_inherit,directory_inherit" app/logs

When everything is fine, click on "Go to the Welcome page" to request your
first "real" Symfony2 webpage:

.. code-block:: text

    http://localhost/Symfony/web/app_dev.php/

Symfony2 should welcome and congratulate you for your hard work so far!

.. image:: /images/quick_tour/welcome.jpg

Beginning Development
---------------------

Now that you have a fully-functional Symfony2 application, you can begin
development! Your distribution may contain some sample code - check the
``README.rst`` file included with the distribution (open it as a text file)
to learn about what sample code was included with your distribution and how
you can remove it later.

Using Source Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you're using a version control system like ``Git`` or ``Subversion``, you
can begin committing your project as normal. If you've downloaded the archive
*without vendors*, you can safely ignore the entire ``vendors/`` directory
and not commit it to source control. With ``Git``, this is done by creating
and adding the following to a ``.gitignore`` file:

.. code-block:: text

    vendor/

Now, the vendor directory won't be committed to source control. This is fine
(actually, it's great!) because when someone else clones our checks out the
project, he/she can simply run the ``php bin/vendors.php`` script to download
all the necessary vendor libraries.

.. _`http://symfony.com/download`: http://symfony.com/download
.. _`Git`: http://git-scm.com/

Commit message:

Bringing in the requirements reference

book/installation.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Installation

Installing and Configuring Symfony
==================================

The goal of this chapter is to get you up-and-running with a working application
built on top of Symfony. Fortunately, Symfony offers "distributions", which
are functional Symfony "starter" projects that you can download and begin
developing in immediately.

Downloading a Symfony2 Distribution
-----------------------------------

.. tip::

    First, check that you have installed and configured a Web server (such
    as Apache) with PHP 5.3.2 or higher. For more information on Symfony2
    requirements, see the :doc:`requirements reference</reference/requirements>`.

Symfony2 packages "distributions", which are fully-functional applications
that include the Symfony2 core libraries, a selection of useful bundles, a
sensible directory structure and some default configuration. When you download
a Symfony2 distribution, you're downloading a functional application skeleton
that can be used immediately to begin developing your application.

Start by visiting the Symfony2 download page at `http://symfony.com/download`_.
On this page, you'll see the *Symfony Standard Edition*, which is the main
Symfony2 distribution. Here, you'll need to make two choices:

* Download either a ``.tgz`` or ``.zip`` archive - both are equivalent, download
  whatever you're more comfortable using;

* Download the distribution with or without vendors. If you have `Git`_ installed
  on your computer, you should download Symfony2 "without vendors", as it
  adds a bit more flexibility when including third-party/vendor libraries.

Download one of the archives somewhere under your local web server/s root
directory and unpack it. From a UNIX command line, this can be done with
one of the following commands (replacing ``###`` with your actual filename):

.. code-block:: bash

    # for .tgz file
    tar zxvf Symfony_Standard_Vendors_2.0.###.tgz
    
    # for a .zip file
    unzip Symfony_Standard_Vendors_2.0.###.tgz

When you're finished, you should have a ``Symfony/`` directory that looks
something like this:

.. code-block:: text

    www/ <- your web root directory
        Symfony/ <- the unpacked archive
            app/
                cache/
                config/
                logs/
            src/
                ...
            vendor/
                ...
            web/
                app.php
                ...

Updating Vendors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Finally, if you downloaded the archive "without vendors", install the vendors
by running the following command from the command line:

.. code-block:: bash

    php bin/vendors.php

.. tip::

    You can call ``php bin/vendors.php --min`` if you don't want all of the
    Git history for your vendor libraries. This also makes the installation
    much faster.

This command downloads all of the necessary vendor libraries - including Symfony
itself - into the ``vendor/`` directory.

Configuration and Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At this point, all of the needed third-party libraries now live in the ``vendor/``
directory. You also have a default application setup in ``app/`` and some
sample code inside the ``src/`` directory.

Symfony2 comes with a visual server configuration tester to help make sure
your Web server and PHP are configured to use Symfony. Use the following URL
URL to check your configuration:

.. code-block:: text

    http://localhost/Symfony/web/config.php

If there are any issues, correct them now before moving on.

.. sidebar:: Setting up Permissions

    One common issue is that the ``app/cache`` and ``app/log`` directories
    must be writable both by the web server and the command line user. On
    a UNIX system, if your web server user is different from your command
    line user, you can run the following commands just once in your project
    to ensure that permissions will be setup properly. Change ``www-data``
    to the web server user and ``yourname`` to your command line user:

    .. code-block:: bash

        rm -rf app/cache/*
        rm -rf app/log/*

        sudo chmod +a "www-data allow delete,write,append,file_inherit,directory_inherit" app/cache
        sudo chmod +a "www-data allow delete,write,append,file_inherit,directory_inherit" app/logs

        sudo chmod +a "yourname allow delete,write,append,file_inherit,directory_inherit" app/cache
        sudo chmod +a "yourname allow delete,write,append,file_inherit,directory_inherit" app/logs

When everything is fine, click on "Go to the Welcome page" to request your
first "real" Symfony2 webpage:

.. code-block:: text

    http://localhost/Symfony/web/app_dev.php/

Symfony2 should welcome and congratulate you for your hard work so far!

.. image:: /images/quick_tour/welcome.jpg

Beginning Development
---------------------

Now that you have a fully-functional Symfony2 application, you can begin
development! Your distribution may contain some sample code - check the
``README.rst`` file included with the distribution (open it as a text file)
to learn about what sample code was included with your distribution and how
you can remove it later.

Using Source Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you're using a version control system like ``Git`` or ``Subversion``, you
can begin committing your project as normal. If you've downloaded the archive
*without vendors*, you can safely ignore the entire ``vendors/`` directory
and not commit it to source control. With ``Git``, this is done by creating
and adding the following to a ``.gitignore`` file:

.. code-block:: text

    vendor/

Now, the vendor directory won't be committed to source control. This is fine
(actually, it's great!) because when someone else clones our checks out the
project, he/she can simply run the ``php bin/vendors.php`` script to download
all the necessary vendor libraries.

.. _`http://symfony.com/download`: http://symfony.com/download
.. _`Git`: http://git-scm.com/
