guides/templating/Twig.rst, before:

.. index::
   single: Twig
   single: View; Twig

Twig & Symfony2
===============

`Twig`_ is a flexible, fast, and secure template language for PHP. Symfony2
has native support for Twig through ``TwigBundle``.

.. index::
   single: Twig; Installation
   single: Twig; Configuration

Rendering Twig Templates
------------------------

To render a Twig template instead of a PHP one, add the ``.twig`` suffix at the
end of the template name. The controller below renders the ``index.twig``
template::

    // src/Application/HelloBundle/Controller/HelloController.php

    public function indexAction($name)
    {
        return $this->render('HelloBundle:Hello:index.twig', array('name' => $name));
    }

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/Hello/index.twig #}

    {% extends "HelloBundle::layout.twig" %}

    Hello {{ $name }}!

.. note::

    The Twig templates must use the ``twig`` extension.

And here is a typical layout:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/layout.twig #}
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
        </head>
        <body>
            {% block body %}{% endblock %}
        </body>
    </html>

Including other Templates
-------------------------

The best way to share a snippet of code between several distinct templates is
to define a template that can then be included into another one.

Create a ``hello.twig`` template:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/Hello/hello.twig #}
    Hello {{ $name }}

And change the ``index.twig`` template to include it:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/Hello/index.twig #}
    {% extends "HelloBundle::layout.twig" %}

    {# override the body block from index.twig #}
    {% block body %}
        {% include "HelloBundle:Hello:hello.twig" %}
    {% endblock %}

.. tip:
   You can also embed a PHP template in a Twig one:

    .. code-block:: jinja

        {# index.twig #}

        {% render 'HelloBundle:Hello:sidebar.php' %}

Embedding other Controllers
---------------------------

And what if you want to embed the result of another controller in a template?
That's very useful when working with Ajax, or when the embedded template needs
some variable not available in the main template.

If you create a ``fancy`` action, and want to include it into the ``index``
template, simply use the following code:

.. code-block:: jinja

    <!-- src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/Hello/index.php -->
    {% render "HelloBundle:Hello:fancy" with ['name': name, 'color': 'green'] %}

Here, the ``HelloBundle:Hello:fancy`` string refers to the ``fancy`` action of
the ``Hello`` controller, and the argument is used as simulated request path
values::

    // src/Application/HelloBundle/Controller/HelloController.php

    class HelloController extends Controller
    {
        public function fancyAction($name, $color)
        {
            // create some object, based on the $color variable
            $object = ...;

            return $this->render('HelloBundle:Hello:fancy.twig', array('name' => $name, 'object' => $object));
        }

        // ...
    }

.. index::
   single: Twig; Helpers

Using Template Helpers
----------------------

The default Symfony2 helpers are available within a Twig template via
specialized tags:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# add a javascript #}
    {% javascript 'bundles/blog/js/blog.js' %}

    {# add a stylesheet #}
    {% stylesheet 'bundles/blog/css/blog.css' with ['media': 'screen'] %}

    {# output the javascripts and stylesheets in the layout #}
    {% javascripts %}
    {% stylesheets %}

    {# generate a URL for an asset #}
    {% asset 'css/blog.css' %}
    {% asset 'images/logo.png' %}

    {# generate a path (/blog/1) #}
    {% path 'blog_post' with ['id': post.id] %}

    {# generate a URL (http://example.com/blog/1) #}
    {% url 'blog_post' with ['id': post.id] %}

    {# render a template #}
    {% include 'BlogBundle:Post:list.twig' %}

    {# embed another controller response #}
    {% render 'BlogBundle:Post:list' with ['limit': 2], ['alt': 'BlogBundle:Post:error'] %}

.. _twig_extension_tag:

Enabling Custom Twig Extensions
-------------------------------

To enable a Twig extension, add it as a regular service in one of your
configuration, and tag it with ``twig.extension``:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        services:
            twig.extension.your_extension_name:
                class: Fully\Qualified\Extension\Class\Name
                tags:
                    - { name: twig.extension }

    .. code-block:: xml

        <service id="twig.extension.your_extension_name" class="Fully\Qualified\Extension\Class\Name">
            <tag name="twig.extension" />
        </service>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container
            ->register('twig.extension.your_extension_name', 'Fully\Qualified\Extension\Class\Name')
            ->addTag('twig.extension')
        ;

.. _Twig:        http://www.twig-project.org/
.. _constructor: http://www.twig-project.org/book/03-Twig-for-Developers

Commit message:

added information about output escaping

guides/templating/Twig.rst, after:

.. index::
   single: Twig
   single: View; Twig

Twig & Symfony2
===============

`Twig`_ is a flexible, fast, and secure template language for PHP. Symfony2
has native support for Twig through ``TwigBundle``.

.. index::
   single: Twig; Installation
   single: Twig; Configuration

Rendering Twig Templates
------------------------

To render a Twig template instead of a PHP one, add the ``.twig`` suffix at the
end of the template name. The controller below renders the ``index.twig``
template::

    // src/Application/HelloBundle/Controller/HelloController.php

    public function indexAction($name)
    {
        return $this->render('HelloBundle:Hello:index.twig', array('name' => $name));
    }

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/Hello/index.twig #}

    {% extends "HelloBundle::layout.twig" %}

    Hello {{ $name }}!

.. note::

    The Twig templates must use the ``twig`` extension.

And here is a typical layout:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/layout.twig #}
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
        </head>
        <body>
            {% block body %}{% endblock %}
        </body>
    </html>

Including other Templates
-------------------------

The best way to share a snippet of code between several distinct templates is
to define a template that can then be included into another one.

Create a ``hello.twig`` template:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/Hello/hello.twig #}
    Hello {{ $name }}

And change the ``index.twig`` template to include it:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/Hello/index.twig #}
    {% extends "HelloBundle::layout.twig" %}

    {# override the body block from index.twig #}
    {% block body %}
        {% include "HelloBundle:Hello:hello.twig" %}
    {% endblock %}

.. tip:
   You can also embed a PHP template in a Twig one:

    .. code-block:: jinja

        {# index.twig #}

        {% render 'HelloBundle:Hello:sidebar.php' %}

Embedding other Controllers
---------------------------

And what if you want to embed the result of another controller in a template?
That's very useful when working with Ajax, or when the embedded template needs
some variable not available in the main template.

If you create a ``fancy`` action, and want to include it into the ``index``
template, simply use the following code:

.. code-block:: jinja

    <!-- src/Application/HelloBundle/Resources/views/Hello/index.php -->
    {% render "HelloBundle:Hello:fancy" with ['name': name, 'color': 'green'] %}

Here, the ``HelloBundle:Hello:fancy`` string refers to the ``fancy`` action of
the ``Hello`` controller, and the argument is used as simulated request path
values::

    // src/Application/HelloBundle/Controller/HelloController.php

    class HelloController extends Controller
    {
        public function fancyAction($name, $color)
        {
            // create some object, based on the $color variable
            $object = ...;

            return $this->render('HelloBundle:Hello:fancy.twig', array('name' => $name, 'object' => $object));
        }

        // ...
    }

.. index::
   single: Twig; Helpers

Using Template Helpers
----------------------

The default Symfony2 helpers are available within a Twig template via
specialized tags:

.. code-block:: jinja

    {# add a javascript #}
    {% javascript 'bundles/blog/js/blog.js' %}

    {# add a stylesheet #}
    {% stylesheet 'bundles/blog/css/blog.css' with ['media': 'screen'] %}

    {# output the javascripts and stylesheets in the layout #}
    {% javascripts %}
    {% stylesheets %}

    {# generate a URL for an asset #}
    {% asset 'css/blog.css' %}
    {% asset 'images/logo.png' %}

    {# generate a path (/blog/1) #}
    {% path 'blog_post' with ['id': post.id] %}

    {# generate a URL (http://example.com/blog/1) #}
    {% url 'blog_post' with ['id': post.id] %}

    {# render a template #}
    {% include 'BlogBundle:Post:list.twig' %}

    {# embed another controller response #}
    {% render 'BlogBundle:Post:list' with ['limit': 2], ['alt': 'BlogBundle:Post:error'] %}

Output Escaping
---------------

Twig is configured to automatically escapes all output by default. Read Twig
documentation to learn more about output escaping and the Escaper extension.

.. _twig_extension_tag:

Enabling Custom Twig Extensions
-------------------------------

To enable a Twig extension, add it as a regular service in one of your
configuration, and tag it with ``twig.extension``:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        services:
            twig.extension.your_extension_name:
                class: Fully\Qualified\Extension\Class\Name
                tags:
                    - { name: twig.extension }

    .. code-block:: xml

        <service id="twig.extension.your_extension_name" class="Fully\Qualified\Extension\Class\Name">
            <tag name="twig.extension" />
        </service>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container
            ->register('twig.extension.your_extension_name', 'Fully\Qualified\Extension\Class\Name')
            ->addTag('twig.extension')
        ;

.. _Twig:        http://www.twig-project.org/
.. _constructor: http://www.twig-project.org/book/03-Twig-for-Developers
